We'll be right back.

Uh, testing.

One, two, one, two.

You guys hear me?

Roger.

Calmly gather.

Sorry we couldn't get you the new model in time.

Or a plugsuit that fits my chest.

If I were you, I'd be more concerned with that scrap together prototype of an A.O.

I'm just happy to pilot something.

Finally.

You earned it, problem child.

Well, good luck.

This is so damn exciting.

Oh man, listen to that hump.

Now then, Evangelion Provisional Unit 5, activate!

The Limbo area must be sealed and defended at all costs.

We can't let this thing escape from Acheron.

How could it possibly have breached a containment system as secure as coquitus?

Not only was it possible, it was inevitable.

The fact is, mankind is simply not capable of containing the angels on its own.

We stripped this thing down to the very bone while studying.

And all that really seemed to do was make it angry enough to break through your containment system and your rampaging through your lab.

So then, look.

It's time to face the day.

Time to make it snappy, but you know, first you gotta make it out of bed.

Hello, Mr.

Sunshine, today you're gonna be mine.

Make him pink, he's where there's only grunting styles ahead.

Take on the day with the one-two punch.

And there it is.

Deploy field.

Target inbound.

Ava unit 5 harry for hostile engagement.

ES power locked at maximum levels.

God damn it!

This thing is stiff!

Alright, gonna have to do this the hard way!

*Sigh* What in the hell is Unit 5 doing?

Will you stop?

Get back here!

Yes!

That would really hurt if this wasn't so much fun!

Time's almost stopped!

Better make this snappy!

The arms were properly safe so this damn thing's starting to fall apart on me!

Fine!

Here!

You want it down badly, I'll just give you the arms!

That's enough!

Just fucking die!

Hey!

Target obliterated.

Unit 5 has been vaporized.

Pilot appears to have ejected.

So Unit 5's self-destruct program triggered without so much as a hitch.

It's all going to plan.

Still, it's a shame we have to use these kids.

Grown-ups dirty work.

Oh, that hurt.

Sinking with an Ava is even more brutal than they warned me.

Well, I'm alive, so it's all good.

Still, I do feel kind of bad about using these adults to get what I want.

Bon voyage, Eva Unit 5.

You served us all well.

How long has it been since we last came here together?

Three years?

Yeah.

Then the last time for me was when I ran away.

It still doesn't seem real to me that Mom is buried here.

I can't picture her face anymore.

People let their memories fade in order to move on.

Although, there are some things we must never forget.

Your mother taught me how to be grateful for these memories.

And I come here to remind myself how much they matter.

Do you have a picture of her?

They were all destroyed.

Even this grave is empty.

Nothing remains.

So you got rid of everything My teacher said you would Everything I need is in my heart and mind That we'll have to do for now It's time I'm needed elsewhere Dad, wait!

I, uh...

I'm glad that we got to talk.

Aye.

*Diesling* You see, Shinji?

I know you were freaked out about it, but it was a lot easier than you thought it'd be, right?

And it was important that the two of you do this together.

I mean, it was a visit to your mom's grave.

I only went because you dragged me out here.

I didn't force you.

You know that deep down you wanted to come.

Be honest with yourself.

If I did that, I'd only end up more miserable.

How can you still be so hard on yourself when you just saved humanity?

You've got to believe in yourself.

I'm sure your dad does, especially after everything you've done.

This is Katsuragi.

Can you repeat that?

Seventh Angel approaching Sagami Bay.

Second Division engaging target.

A state of emergency has been officially declared. - I've got a clear vision limit.

I'm bringing in the Unit One pilot right now.

Implement Task Zero Three and prep Unit Zero for launch. - Negative, Task Zero Two has been initiated. - Task Zero Two?

You mean?

They launched Unit Two!

I'll be right back.

Wow!

Just one shot?

No, that had to be a decoy.

*Screams* Situation clear.

AVA Unit 2 currently in practice.

Contact 4 may be served.

That's only clear.

No chance to escalate a time on the fire.

Wow!

It's cool that Unit 2 is red.

That's not the only thing that's cool about it.

Unit 0 and Unit 1 are basically nothing but beta testing prototypes.

They're antiquated machinery.

But Unit 2 is the final product.

It's the world's very first true Evangelion.

Perfect in every way.

And there she is, the pride of the Euro Air Force, Captain Oscar Langley Shikinami.

She's the second child and the designated pilot of Unit 2.

It's been a while, Misato.

So that's the Unit 0 pilot, huh?

The teacher's pet herself.

And one of you must be the daddy's boy who lucked his way into the Unit 1 cockpit.

Uh, uh...

Hmm.

What are you, stupid?

Were you too busy to help me out?

Not that I needed it.

You would have just gotten in my way.

Aren't you ashamed you were nowhere to be found during an angel attack?

Were you hiding behind your daddy?

Who the hell does that chick think she is?

Talk about bitchy.

Yeah, but still, you gotta admit, it's pretty awesome that she's already a captain at our age.

That's like a ten-year-old going to med school.

Excuse me.

You know if this is the right gate to get to the Geo France hub terminal?

Yeah, this is it.

You've got a transfer at the fourth stop, though.

I've only been gone two years, and I don't recognize a single thing.

Thanks for setting me straight, kid.

Say, though, is Colonel Katsuragi around here?

Uh-huh.

I'm an old friend of hers.

I bet we could swap stories about her snoring keeping us up at night.

Right, Shinji.

He's seen her sleep?

Who the hell is that guy?

Man, was that job ever a pain in the ass.

Regardless, both AV Unit 5 and the Third Angel were disposed of as planned, and the cause officially labeled an accident.

The Marduk plan at Bethany Base is all but suspended at this point.

Now then, as for my latest report on sailing We've already looked over it The details on the construction of Mark VI are rather helpful Glad to hear it Want to look at the item you asked for?

I imagine you must be pretty eager to see it The metaphysical twining Between God and the soul And it will open the door to human instrumentality The lost key of Nebuchadnezzar Then if that's all, I've got some other things I need to attend to.

Chief Inspection Officer Ryoji Kaji.

Are you certain that he can be trusted?

You lost a little weight, eh, Ritsu?

Nice try.

But I've gained more than I'd like to admit.

Maybe you're just wearing too many clothes.

I'd show you.

But this room is being monitored.

Was monitored.

I replaced the main feed with a loop.

Thoroughly prepared, as always, huh?

Hey, when I play, I play to win.

But you've lost.

You should have covered the windows, too.

Well, Rio, it's been a while.

Indeed.

Far too long.

What the hell is this jerk doing here?

I thought you got assigned a euro.

I'm on a job.

Looks like I'll be here for a while.

So the three of us can hang out.

It'll be just like old times.

Who the hell wants to try and relive the past?

And I'm down here to see Ritsuko, not you.

HR's just given us the approval on Asuka.

Bah!

Oh, my.

That was pure jealousy.

I'd say you still have a shot.

Think so?

Guess we'll see.

Asuka Langley Shikinami.

It's like she's actually happy to pilot an Ava.

Hey, I'm back.

What happened to my room?

Whose crap is this?

That is not crap.

Those are my belongings.

Huh?

What about my stuff?

Wait, what in the heck are you even doing here?

God, you're an idiot.

It's rather obvious that you've been replaced.

Yeah.

I guess Misato wanted a more skilled pilot as her roommate.

You're joking.

That's what I said when I saw how small these Japanese rooms are.

I mean, I couldn't even fit half my stuff in here.

And is privacy like some completely foreign idea to the Japanese?

Seriously, how do you people live in rooms without locks when anyone can walk in on you? - We don't see the need for them.

We believe in consideration. - Misano...

God, you're irritating.

Now get your junk out of here so I can unpack.

No, no.

No one's kicking Shinji out.

Look, if the two of you are going to work together, then you need to learn how to communicate.

You two are fellow pilots now, so you're going to live here together and learn to act like it.

That's an order, by the way.

Okay, all together now.

Thank you for the meal.

Yeah!

There's nothing better than an ice-cold beer after a nice hot bath.

There's something!

A creature in there!

It's just a penguin.

His name is Pinpin.

You degenerate pervert!

How dare you spy on me!

It certainly seems like they're starting to get more comfortable with each other.

I've been fed.

You know we're better than they are.

They aren't special the way we are.

Nothing's changed.

It's just like before.

You're still better off on your own, Asuka.

Yeah.

A field trip?

With Kaji?

Uh-huh.

And he said I could bring anyone I want.

Yeah!

Of course he did.

I'll sit this one out, thanks.

Cool, then I'll just hang out with you.

No, ma'am.

You're supposed to be harmonizing.

So you're sticking with Shinji.

Is that another order?

Here we are, not even 100 feet over Topka Moon Base, and yet they still won't allow us to land.

Seile can be nasty when they want to.

They're clearly using a new method of construction for the Mach 6.

Just confirming that is enough.

I didn't realize there were any more plans for construction after Unit 5.

For all we know, there could be further undisclosed apocrypha.

Sele is intent to follow the scripture of the Dead Sea Scrolls.

But Sele can't be oblivious to our plans.

They must be aware of Nerveskull by now.

They most likely are, but we can't allow that to alter the course of our path.

Even if that ultimately means acting against the Word of God.

A person?

Surely not.

Nice to meet you, Father.

Awesome!

This is so damn cool!

It's amazing that a place like this even exists!

I mean, to preserve the remaining marine life and all the research they're doing to restore the ocean to its original state?

And they're actually letting us tour this top-secret facility?

This is the coolest thing any friend has ever done for me!

Thanks for the invitation, ma'am.

Mr.

Conchie's the one you should be thanking.

Alright, kids.

Gets a little complicated here.

Huh?

Oh, what was Oh!

It's enormous!

That's incredible!

Oh my gosh!

I've never seen anything like this!

So this is what the ocean looked like before the second impact.

This is crazy!

Have I said this is awesome yet?

Whoa!

Check out that one with the shell on its back!

I think those are called turtles.

They're acting like little children.

What, idiots?

I'm glad you got to come with us, Ray.

So, how are you feeling?

Better.

I finished the treatments, so I'm fine now.

It's cramped in there.

They should turn them loose in one of the bigger tanks.

They can't.

They wouldn't make it outside.

They can only survive in here now.

They're like me that way.

Thanks for the meal.

Oh, this is good.

I'm surprised.

It is.

Hey, you're a pretty good little cook there, Shinji.

It's kind of astounding that 90% artificial meat can taste this good when you grill it right.

Yeah, Shinji, real hidden talent you got there.

Well, you know, with the way Misato cooks, I had no choice but to learn.

Well, I'll tell you, ladies love a man knows his way around the kitchen.

Do you hear that?

Say what?

You won't find me doing it.

It's no job for a man.

More like a caveman.

Idiot.

What'd you call me?

There's nothing wrong with having principles.

Unless there's stupid principles.

Guys, just forget about it.

Eat up.

Oh, sorry, Ray.

Did you not like the food?

Well, I...

I just don't eat meat.

Why do the Japanese always apologize when they've done nothing wrong?

And drop the righteousness.

It's perfectly natural to eat other living things.

But it'll just be a waste of precious life if you don't eat that.

What?

You want to fight?

Coming through.

Pardon me.

I'll take care of this situation.

Hey, back off, greedy little bastard!

Forget it!

I said no!

What a moron.

Well, some miso soup, then?

Here, try it.

It's delicious.

It's hard to accept that that's our Mother Earth.

It breaks my heart to even look at it.

It's even worse knowing there are other human beings who wanted this outcome.

To see the extinction of their own species in order to cleanse the Earth of original sin.

I prefer the living chaos of man instead of this barren wasteland of death.

Chaos is merely a human construct.

The world only knows its own natural law of harmony and order.

So you're saying it's the human heart that throws the world into confusion?

It's kind of hard to wrap my mind around the fact that the ocean was blue before I was born.

I'm still amazed we were able to restore the environment enough for a kid like you to even be born.

I don't know about this breeze, though.

Don't you think it smells a little too weird and fishy?

That's just the smell of putrefaction.

It's evidence that there's life here, unlike the red emptiness out there.

This is what the ocean's supposed to smell like.

This world is meant to be brimming with a vast and beautiful diversity of life.

It once was.

I wanted you guys to know that.

It really does make me happy.

I just wish Misato would have come with us.

She could never come here.

Too many memories.

Memories of what?

Of living through the second impact.

Thank you. - Have you ever asked Misato why she decided to join Nerve?

She doesn't really talk about him, but her father.

He devoted his life to his research, and she spent a long time hating him for that.

She despised him. the very thought of him.

Sounds like you and your dad don't get along.

Guess we have that in common.

She's the same as me.

Although, in the end, her father saved her life.

Surviving something like that, you go through a lot.

Accepting the loss of those who died, what they died for, it's a heavy burden when you're the sole survivor.

Just know, we all have our pain.

Target sighted by Mauna K observatory.

Status, entering Earth's orbit.

I've got a visual coming in from surveillance satellite 3.

Projecting on the main view screen.

It has an AT field strong enough to bend light.

That's unbelievable.

Well, what's its point of impact?

Let me guess.

It's heading here.

The Magi are calculating.

The probability of a direct hit on NERV is over 99%.

The aerial in tube bombs aren't having any effect.

Then we can't adjust its trajectory.

It's focused its AT field into a single concentrated point.

What's more, it's accumulating energy as it descends.

So from the look of it, the Angel itself is acting as a bomb.

If it scores a direct hit, the results would be catastrophic.

Based on our projections, the blast diameter is 420,000.

Tokyo 3 will be vaporized, along with the Geo Front.

Central Dogma will be completely exposed.

Where's the commander?

The Angel's field has disrupted all of our ComSat signals.

At present, we're unable to reach him.

Which means we're just going to have to make the call ourselves.

Notify the government, as well as all of the ministries.

Under NERV's authority, we are issuing special declaration D-17.

Evacuate all residents within a 120-kilometer radius.

That's easy enough.

They're one step ahead of us.

Government officials are already running.

Evacuation of all civilians has been completed.

Evacuation of noncombatants and Class D workers has been completed in accordance with Directive C.

Matsushito Base has agreed to back up the Magi.

So, what's the plan?

Aerial combat's out of the question, since the Evas can't fly.

And there's too much spatial distortion to successfully attempt sniping.

So what other options do we even have against a monster like this?

You can't be serious.

Well, I am.

This is too desperate to even call a plan.

The Magi calculated a failure probability of 99%.

And even if it succeeds, we'd lose three Aebls.

As head of the technology division, I find that unacceptable.

A one percent chance is better than zero.

Be realistic here.

It would take a miracle.

We should focus our efforts on protecting Lilith and Unit 1.

I am being realistic.

We're gonna create our own miracle.

Colonel Katsuragi!

I am the ranking officer here.

It's my decision.

More than that, it's my job to stop the Angels at all costs.

Your job?

You mean your grudge.

You're risking everything for your vendetta.

What?

You want us to catch it?

Exactly.

As the Angel descends, you'll max out your AT fields and catch it directly.

The target has scrambled its coordinates so we can't accurately calculate its exact point of impact.

In order to narrow the field of possibility, all three Avas will be simultaneously deployed in different locations.

Listen, I can destroy this thing on my own!

No way.

It's impossible.

The projected target area is too vast for one Ava to cover.

How do you know where to place us?

Woman's intuition.

Oh, that's reliable.

What's the chance of success?

It's probably best if you don't know that.

Ha!

And yet you insist on tethering me to these dead weight.

I've proven that I can take an angel on my own.

The success of this mission is going to require more than your solo combat skills.

So that's how little you think of me, Ben.

That's not it.

I need all three of you to make this miracle happen.

It's our only shot I don't understand it, but there's something comforting about sitting inside the AVA, even at a time like this.

It's familiar somehow.

Is it the smell?

It reminds me of my mom and Ray.

There's no turning back now.

All right, Avas, get positioned.

We can't rely on the secondary data.

So from here on, all actions will be left to your judgment.

Everything we've got is riding on the three of you.

Target approaching at 20,000 feet.

All right, release the locks.

Now go!

Target's 18 field is morphing.

It's changing course.

Impact point adjusted to 205.

The target's accelerating.

It's moving faster than they predicted.

There's no way I'm going to make it in time.

Look, just leave it to me.

Misato!

Raise up the blast shield. 605 to 75.

Next, stagger tips. - 10-7-2 through 10-7-8, downtime!

Target morphing.

Distance 12,000.

AT Field at max power!

*Sigh* I'm almost there!

I'm the tube, get the cord.

I know that, dammit!

And don't you dare give me orders!

Did I miss?

The dam's been scurrying around!

Thirty seconds left!

Oscar, hurry!

I'm trying, damn it!

Where'd you go from?

Hurry!

Oscar!

Will you both shut up?

Damn you!

Help!

Help!

Now die!

Kill!

*Sigh * Thank you.

The system's back up.

Incoming call from Commander Akari.

Patch him through.

My apologies, Commander.

Because of decisions I made, we sustained heavy damage.

Not only to the Avas, but the pilots as well.

The responsibility's mine, and mine alone, Commander.

It's okay.

In light of the danger this target imposed, this level of damage could be considered fortunate.

I agree.

You did well, Colonel Katsaraki.

Thank you, sir.

Patch me through to Unit 1's pilot.

I heard what happened.

You did very well, Shinji.

Oh, uh, thank you, sir.

I'll leave the recovery effort to you, Colonel Katsuraki.

Yes, sir.

Expedite recovery of the Avas.

Emergency transport priority goes to Unit 1.

I couldn't do anything.

I was helpless on my own.

I've never not been alone.

It's all I know.

So why do I feel like this?

Just turn back around.

Will you let me just lie here for a while?

Hey, um, Asuka?

You know, you really should refer to me as Captain.

I guess you can call me Asuka, though. but only if I get to call you stupid Shinji.

Oh, well, Asuka, why do you pilot the Eva?

Stupid question.

I clearly picked the right name for you.

I pilot the Eva because I want to.

Why do you do it?

I'm not really sure why.

Don't be an idiot.

You just don't want to admit the reason to yourself.

I think I do it for my father's approval.

Today, he actually praised me.

I've always hated being praised, but I didn't today.

And I wonder if he's proud of me now.

Maybe it's just like Misato was saying.

Stupid Shinji.

You really are an idiot.

Thank you, God, for inventing lunch!

It's the only good thing about school there is!

What?

Why didn't you make lunch for us?

Because I didn't have time to.

I was doing my homework all morning.

Well, that's just great!

You got your stupid homework done, and now I get a star for that day, you idiot!

I already promised to make it tomorrow.

Look at this.

The newlyweds are fighting.

Shut up! - Could I maybe join you?

You mind?

I guess, but I don't have enough to share.

Here, Ray.

It's for you.

You never have lunch, so I thought...

Yes, thank you.

I'm so glad I finally worked out and we have to talk to you.

That's your name?

Well, you can eat the rest.

Oh, man, am I stuffed.

Thank you for this meal.

Kind of a late lunch, huh?

Yeah, I was busy.

So I heard you leave the cooking up to Shinji.

That's good.

Glad you're not just eating instant ramen.

Yeah, I guess.

Unlike you, some people actually have work to do and don't have time to waste on cooking.

Serious as ever about your work.

And that's great.

I mean, it's a strength.

Most of the time, at least.

I heard about the little spat you had with Ritzi the other day.

It wouldn't hurt you to try to relax a little.

That'd be nice, but I've got too much on my plate to relax.

Sad but true.

You're never gonna find a guy with that kind of tension in your life.

And why the hell do you care? - I'm gonna move All rise!

Bow!

Be seated.

Hmm.

It appears Miss Ayanami is absent again.

Oh well.

I wonder why.

She seemed fine yesterday.

They're like me that way.

They can only survive in there.

Ray.

It's time for a meal.

Yes.

Commander Ikari?

Yes, Ray.

Do you find meals enjoyable?

Yes.

And do you find pleasure in eating with others?

Yes.

And the act of cooking, that's enjoyable, isn't it?

Yes.

Commander Ikari, would it be nice to sit down for a meal with your son and the others sometime?

No, I don't have time.

Gendo, take care of Shinji.

All right, then.

Count me in.

This sucks!

Talk about boring!

I'd rather be fighting an angel right now.

I hate these checks.

Well, this is part of the job, and we want to build a peaceful world without the threat of angel attacks, hoping for one is counterproductive.

Yep.

Endless tedium.

Can you even begin to imagine that?

Just one quiet, boring day after another?

I don't know.

Sounds pretty nice to me.

Check's complete.

All signals are loud and clear.

Good work, you three.

We're done now.

You can come on out. to analysis and diagnostic circuit 803.

Back up to 5.

Comence a Calcio Padre in three minutes.

I hope I'm not out of line here, but repairing this damage is going to put operations at a standstill.

Couldn't we just ignore the Vatican Treaty?

I wish we could.

They didn't seem to take repairs into account when they prohibited each country from owning more than three avas.

As of right now, all of our repair work is focused on Unit 1, And we're pretty much tapping out our spare parts surplus, so we don't even know when we'll be able to repair Unit Zero.

The ego of every country is wrapped up in that treaty.

It'd be impossible to get it revised.

And to make matters worse for us, Russia and Euro are alleging that Asia had something to do with the loss of Unit 5.

Things get ugly when politics are involved.

We have to wade through a sea of red tape before we can protect the world.

*Sigh* Dammit, where are my glasses?

Um.

Oh, sorry about that.

Are you okay?

Yeah, this is Mari.

Yeah, the wind picked up and took me off target.

It looks like I landed on a school of some sort.

What?

Well, you were the one who told me to enter Japan covertly.

That's not my problem.

That's for you and the Euro people to work out.

Just make sure you're there for my extraction, okay?

Thanks.

You smell good, like LCL.

One of my favorite smells in the world.

Your smell.

I said I like it.

But let's pretend that I wasn't here.

That cool with you, Nerfling?

What?

That's weird.

Hey, lonely?

We could take you out on a date.

You realize I'm a guy, right?

Do I look like I care?

Gender has got nothing to do with love.

Just messing with you.

Thirsty?

It smells fresh.

Like life.

Don't tell me you're already worn out.

I paid for more labor than that.

You didn't pay me.

You mean that can of coffee?

So that's what you were up to.

Somehow I didn't really expect you to be the devious type.

Why the heck not?

Do you know any adults who aren't devious?

These plants here, are they watermelons?

Yep.

Cute, huh?

They're kind of my hobby.

I love growing things.

It gives you a greater perspective on the world.

Gives you the chance to sort things out.

Reminds you what it is to enjoy life.

So it helps you forget the pain.

Not a big fan of pain, huh?

Well, I don't like it.

Is there anything that you do like?

Hey, that's all right.

Listen, the way I see it, it's the people who've lived through true pain that understand the value of kindness.

If anything, it makes them stronger.

But tell me this.

You like Misato?

Do I like her?

Well, I don't not like her.

Do me a favor.

Protect her.

She needs it.

And I can't do it.

You're the only one who can.

Please.

*Bell rings* Good morning.

Ray, you're back!

Good morning.

That's, uh, not like her.

Hey, Ray, are you all right?

Yes, I'm feeling fine.

What's wrong with your hand?

Oh, this?

Dr.

Akagi put these on for me.

Well, what happened?

Nothing.

It's a secret, but I'll tell you later.

Ray seems different lately.

I've noticed.

The idea of her doing something for someone else is a little startling.

I wonder what brought this on.

Well, it could be love.

Ray and love?

You're joking, right?

Hmm.

Now I'm handsy like stupid Shinji is probably gonna be as stupid spicy.

Hey, I'm back!

Oh, Misato, you're home early.

Yeah, but I'm going straight back to work.

I just dropped in to take a bath.

Whoa!

So, what's all this about?

If I had to guess, I think you'd be cooking for Shinji.

What?

No, I'm not.

It's just for, um, my friend Ikari.

First Rei and now you, too?

You're both so romantic.

Excuse me.

Don't let me in with Wonder Girl.

You're right.

After all, she's taking things to a whole different level.

What?

How so?

Well, I get the feeling that she's trying to force a bond between Shinji and Commander Ikari.

Here.

She's invited everyone to a dinner party, and she's going to serve a home-cooked meal.

It's a pretty direct plan of attack.

Bringing those two together is gonna be just about as easy as moving mountains.

She's doing all this, but that stupid Shinji?

It's supposed to be a surprise, so don't tell him anything, okay?

Oh, like I even care enough!

So stupid.

All of our auxiliary systems, we need help on standby.

Hey, it's fine.

Vaporized?

AVA Unit 4 and Branch 2 were wiped off the map?

This is the analysis of Ground Zero at T-plus-10.

It's terrible.

The satellite data feed verifies that the AT field collapsed, but we're still not sure why.

So Unit 4 was at the center.

And our Avas?

Tell me they're stable.

Well, Unit 4...

We can talk about it.

It was being used as a test subject for a new internal engine.

That's all we know.

It's not much.

North America has been pretty tight-lipped.

They wouldn't even disclose their intel to Dr.

Akagi.

Well, then who would know?

So, Unit 4.

It was an experimental unit meant to usher in the next generation of Avas.

Anything could have gone wrong with it.

Although...

Was it really an accident?

*Mirror sounds* Hey, excuse me.

Give me three, please.

What's with the generosity?

It's not really like you.

Oh, yeah?

Maybe you just don't hang out with us enough to see my generous side.

Ever think of that?

No, this is definitely a first.

Why don't you just tell him that your sister is feeling better?

Shut up!

No one was talking to you, moron!

So, Shinji.

Hmm?

I heard they're shipping unit 3 to Japan.

They are?

That's the first I've heard of it.

Well, these are just rumors.

But I heard the US insisted we take it.

But I guess you pilots don't really need to know this stuff.

Hey, who do you think will pilot it?

How would I know?

They keep me in the dark.

It must be so cool to be a pilot.

You think they'd ever pick me?

Why are you asking me?

Talk to Misato.

Things never last.

So, two units have been lost in a matter of months.

Yes.

First Unit 5 and now Unit 4.

In terms of progress, their loss is a hindrance to our plans, but still.

A setback perhaps, but it doesn't pose any real problem.

The American government has insisted that you accept their offering of Unit 3, and your government has already agreed to take it.

It's state-of-the-art and should suffice as your primary unit.

The elimination of the Angels requires a more reliable approach.

An untested unit can't be trusted.

But if you would simply approve the additional budget to repair Unit 0...

The prototype's function has grown obsolete.

You're no longer needed.

There are other matters that are far more deserving of our concerns.

Our only desire is the true Evangelion.

Its awakening will coincide with the resurrection of Lilith and usher in the time of the Covenant.

It's crucial that the necessary rites be performed by them, for the sake of the human instrumentality project.

I am aware of this.

I assure you that all will go according to Sele's plan.

The true Evangelion.

They see all of our current Avas, including Unit 1, as simple placeholders to precede its completion.

So that's the purpose of the Mark VI?

They're taking it one step further.

They've decided to create a real god instead of false ones.

Yes, we must hasten the awakening of Unit 1.

What the hell?

You can't put Unit 2 into containment!

You know the stipulations of the Vatican Treaty.

With the arrival of Unit 3, we have no choice.

In store Unit Zero!

It's not even functioning!

We would if we could.

But Uro still technically owns Unit 2.

We have to keep our infos operational.

It's in a political gray area right now.

Uro hasn't even said if they want you to continue piloting it.

But it's mine!

No one else can pilot it!

It's a combat weapon, Oscar.

We have a backup plan for everything, and that includes the pilot.

I repeat, Ava Unit 2 is being submerged.

The cockpit of Ava is the only place I feel like I belong.

The Ava's only mirror what's in our hearts.

What did you say?

You don't have to depend on the Ava.

There's plenty of happiness for you in the world outside.

How would you know anything about it?

Don't patronize me.

I actually worked to be a pilot.

I was selected purely because of my skills.

I didn't get in through nepotism like you did.

I can't help it that I'm tied to it.

The only human connections I have are through the Ava.

Shut up!

You're only the commander's favorite because you're a suck-up.

His obedient little doll that does every single thing he says.

I am not a doll.

Yes, you are!

How could you be so damn oblivious?

You've got some nerve for a doll.

I've got a question for you.

What do you really think of the idiot?

Idiot?

Yeah, the idiot, stupid Shinji.

What do I think?

Let's hear it.

I, um, I'm not sure.

You Japanese are so reserved.

Just say how you feel, damn it!

I don't know.

Although, being with him makes me feel warm inside.

And I, I want him to feel the same way.

I want him to get along with his father.

And to feel warm inside, that's all.

Is that so?

She's just as much of a stupid idiot as he is.

She doesn't even realize that she likes him.

I can't wait for this dinner party.

I am a little nervous about Ray's cooking, though.

I just wish that Dad would come.

So there it is, the dummy system.

It's supposed to be a support system for the pilot, but it can pilot the AVA on its own.

It can even generate an AT field without a pilot.

It does seem more humane than putting children in the cockpit.

So this new dummy system they're instating.

I don't trust that thing at all.

It's a top-secret development from Golgotha base.

It's a mystery to all of us.

And we're gonna let it pilot our giant mechanized weapons for us?

It's insane!

So you're saying you're more comfortable with human pilots?

Is that it?

I know you trust Shinji and all, but is that the only reason you feel that way?

Forget it.

What about this organization called Seilei or whatever?

What do you know about it?

I'd advise against sticking your nose into that one.

That's not an option.

Human instrumentality.

What is Nerve really up to behind the scenes?

Honestly.

I'd like to know that one myself.

This is the first meal we've had in years.

All we do is talk about work.

Things have changed since we were students.

We're aware of so much more.

So many more burdens.

I guess we don't have the luxury of just thinking of ourselves anymore.

Shinji and the others.

Now, those kids have the greatest burden of them all.

Yeah.

They shouldn't have to deal with the shit we put them through.

But we don't have any other choice.

Yes?

Yeah, right, I know.

I'll have my decision for you by midnight.

That Ritzi?

Yep.

She's harassing me about the unit three test pilot.

It is your responsibility to choose.

Yeah, I know it is It's just that out of all the days that unit three could arrive They had to pick the worst one possible so that's when they're running a unit three activation tests The same day as the suck-ups dinner party Really?

You've settled on Oscar?

Right.

I'm heading to Matsushiro on the last flight out.

I'll leave the rest in your hands, Maya.

Yes, ma'am.

Have a good flight.

Um, Dr.

Akagi?

Huh?

I have a message for the second child.

Could I call her?

You have one unheard message.

First unheard message.

Here you go, Ray.

You can talk now.

Thank you.

Huh, God, she's an idiot.

I'm doing this to pilot Eva, not for her.

If I decide that I like Unit 3, have them repaint it red, okay?

Morning, Kensuke.

Morning.

Morning, Shinji.

Oh, hey, where's Tochi?

Oh, he's at the hospital.

From what I heard, his sister's getting out today.

Oh, right.

That's great.

He told me to tell you this.

Forget about the whole thing.

And his sister says thanks, too.

So no more guilt.

You know, things are starting to look up.

So then, it's your big night.

Your special evening with Ray.

You fucking bastard, you!

Mission Director, the man activation testing of engineering unit 3 has arrived on the premises and is currently on the Test pilot medical checkup completed.

Currently standing by in local quarantine.

It looks like we've got everything in order per week's go.

A secure line from Asuka?

Fine, that's fine.

Let's get a diagnostic camera set up on this.

What's up, Asuka?

You need a pep talk?

I just suddenly felt like talking to you for some reason.

Sure.

And like I said, I appreciate you doing this.

Thanks again.

No need for thanks.

It's the duty of the elite to protect the ignorant masses.

I'm not really big on dinner parties anyway.

And it's exhausting to act like you're having fun, but you're not.

Who wants to sit around watching everyone else have fun?

The only thing I care about is being a pilot.

And I actually like being alone.

I don't really have much use for phony friends.

I mean, no one's ever seen me for the real me.

And my performance scores are more important.

I'd rather cement my status and nerve.

I was kind of starting to think that I didn't mind being around other people so much.

But that is just so not me.

I don't think that's true.

You have a kind heart, Asuka.

I've never talked to anyone like this before.

I actually feel better now.

It feels kind of nice to talk to someone.

I had no idea.

Well, believe it or not, the world is full of all sorts of great things you don't know about yet.

Try to enjoy it.

You're right.

And I will thank you.

One last thing.

It's cool that it's retinol, but what pervert designed this suit?

It's a bit revealing.

Begin entry sequence.

LCL ionization.

Pressure level status 3.

All test levels 3.

High-resolver.

I can laugh.

I didn't know I could.

Blood depth over 100.

Contamination levels are in the red zone.

What's happening?

Highlights descending below safe depths.

Pull back.

If this keeps progressing, she'll no longer be human.

Abort attack.

Shut it down.

Ladies, high energy readings are in the neighbor.

An angel?

No!

What?

An explosion of Matsushito?

What's the damage?

Unit 3 holding cage appears to be the epicenter.

Destruction of above-ground facilities confirmed.

Immediately dispatch all rescue units.

I want this resolved before the SSDF steps in.

Yes, sir.

We've got a new alert, sir.

Unidentified object sighted.

The pattern's orange.

We can't tell if it's an angel. - Battle stations, condition one. - Sir? - Issue a base-wide condition one alert.

Place unit zero on standby.

Ready unit one for launch as soon as it's been fitted with a dummy plug. - Deployment of the fifth tank company to defensive line 18 complete. - Connection of main power extension cable scheduled for completion in two minutes.

Back at mobile strike unit is in unit one.

Are Asuka and Misato okay?

We're making every effort we can to rescue them.

Try not to worry.

But without Misato or any backup, then there's just no way I can do this on my own.

We're still fully staffed down here, and Commander Ikari's directing this operation personally.

My dad is?

We have footage from outside Tome.

I'm patching it through now.

Just as we feared transmit the shutdown signal force eject the second child's entry plug We've confirmed that there's a core like substance around the entry plug pattern analysis complete it's blue As of this moment, we're officially discarding Evangelion unit 3 target will now be identified as the ninth angel - Target approaching.

Prepare to intercept ground to ground. - Blockade units, open fire! - All blockade units retreat to the end of the defense. - Is that a...

Are you sure that's an Angel? - 100%.

That's your target. - That's my target?

But it can't be.

That's an Ava. - Open fire! - This is wrong. - Your target is now approaching.

It must be destroyed. - But that...

This doesn't feel right.

Oscar was supposed to be piloting it.

Is she in there?

*Sigh * I don't know. - Armor corroding your cervical vertebrae. - Surface layer's contaminated and it's spreading. - It's attacking invasively.

This could be tricky. - Unit 1's 18th is unstable. - Life support's malfunctioning.

The pilot is in severe danger. - Damn, minimize the neural connections to 28%. - Not yet. - We have to.

The pilot will die at this rate. - Shinji, why aren't you fighting? - Because of the force. - I'm not sure.

I'm still in there!

I can't!

Listen.

That is an angel.

And that is all that matters.

No!

You can't do it!

You can't make me murder, Asuka!

Then you're going to die.

Fine!

I'd rather die than kill her!

No matter.

Sever the pilot's synchronization with Unit 1 now.

Commander!

Cut it entirely?

Correct.

Switch all control to the dummy system.

But, sir, we would need Dr.

Akagi's instructions.

And the system, it's not ready.

It will be of more use than the current pilot.

Now do it.

Yes, sir.

What is this?

What's going on?

What the hell are you doing, Dad?

System switchover successfully completed.

Energy detection efficiencies...

AT field stable.

Recover to level B.

Connection.

Central nerves confirmed.

No abnormalities detected.

Very good.

Release the system.

Commence attack.

*Ding* My god, it's stronger than you expected.

Dummy systems functioning normally.

Control limiters being released. *sad music* *sad music* What?

What?

What's going on, Dad?

What is this?

What are you doing!

Dammit!

Please stop, stop, stop, stop, stop...

Stop, stop, stop, stop...

What's that sound?

Stop it!

Jump! - Two survivors confirmed to shout six. - I'm alive.

Kashiya. - You're lucky, damn lucky. - Is Fritsko? - Don't worry, she's just a little bruised. - Good. - Asuka, what happened to her?

She...

Unit 3 was destroyed.

As an angel.

We've cut Unit 1 synchronization circuits.

What about the ejection signal?

It's being overridden from within the plug.

He's locked himself inside me.

Listen to reasons, Shinji.

Just stop and think about what you're doing.

Please!

I know exactly what I'm doing.

And you're only making me angrier.

Unit 1 has 285 seconds left.

That's enough time to destroy half of headquarters if I want.

In his state of mind, he might just do it.

Shinji, please just listen to us!

Commander Ikari had to do it!

You would have died if he didn't make that call!

That doesn't change anything.

But it's still the truth, dammit!

I would have rather died than be a part of what you've done!

Dead trite!

That bastard tried to kill Asuka!

Can you use my hands to do it?

Tell me why?

Why?

Why did you do it?

You don't even understand, do you, Dad?

I was so stupid to trust you.

Maybe if you lose something you care about, then you'll understand!

Raise the LCL compression density to the limit.

We don't have time to deal with a child's tantrum.

I've got control of the circuits!

*Gunshot* *Gunshot* Damn you!

Damn you!

Damn you!

You're always listening to that, aren't you?

Yeah.

This used to be my dad's old cassette player.

Just like his old glasses you've got, Ray.

He didn't need it anymore, so he got rid of it.

Just like me.

I found it at my old teacher's place, and I took it.

I close up my ears to close off my heart, so I can drown out the noise of this cruel world.

This cruel world?

That's right.

The world where the father I hate lives. the world of angels and avas where i'm forced to do terrible things where my father can replace me with a dummy and my friends get hurt i know that good things happen too but none of it ever seems to last y'all gets destroyed in the end it's a cruel world and i'm turning my back on it i thought if i became a pilot my dad would protect me from all this I was stupid enough to believe that.

Did you ever really try to understand your father?

Of course I did.

Are you sure about that?

Look, I tried, dammit!

He's the one that's wrong!

He's the one who abandoned me!

That may be true, but you're just running away from things you don't like.

So what if I am?

Why is that so wrong?

I don't want this thing!

*Gasp* This place again...

I'm sick of this.

Verify all instructions on recovering fragments of Unit 3 with the technology.

I'm afraid anything above Section 9 is unlikely to have survived.

Yes, prioritize the internal organs.

No, people waiting.

No one near the screen.

We're gonna take this to the enterprise.

Checking out.

Her cellular tissue is free of infection.

There's still a chance of psychological contamination.

We have no choice but to quarantine her.

Do you think they would go so far as to dispose of her?

She's a valuable specimen.

They would never.

Pilot Shinji Ikari.

Commander Ikari wants to see you.

Insubordination.

Hijacking an Ava.

Making treasonous threats.

These are all serious offenses.

Do you have anything to say for yourself?

Yes.

I don't ever want to pilot an Ava again.

I see.

Then you should leave.

Once again, you're running away.

You have to sacrifice everything for your dreams.

And that's something you have to do on your own.

Nobody else is going to do it for you.

It's time for you to grow up, Shinji.

You say that, but I don't even know what that's supposed to mean.

It's Akari.

Remove the third child from our records.

Instate the dummy system as the primary operator of Unit 1.

There's no need for a backup.

I guess Rei didn't try to stop Shinji from leaving after all.

She's opened up so much lately.

I was hoping she would Those kids are damn near indecipherable.

Yeah, and now we're back down to one pilot back to square one again I'm sure you already know this but nerve won't just forget about you They're gonna keep you under surveillance and your actions will be heavily restricted You forgot this.

Kinsuke and Toji have left you a lot of messages.

They're worried about you.

I don't really want it.

I meant to leave it.

You know, you haven't even asked about Rei or Asuka.

The truth is, I don't think I really care too much about humanity or the world either.

I know that's kind of strange, given my current position.

But I wound up here as a way to grow closer to my late father.

That's why I joined Nerve.

Just like you agreed to pilot the Ava because you wanted your father to need you.

And because of that, I tried to live vicariously through you.

And it was wrong of me to put that kind of burden on you.

And I know how disillusioned you've become about piloting the Ava.

But I want you to know that I...

That day, Ray had invited your father.

She wanted to help the two of you grow closer.

She wanted you to laugh together.

I don't think that I'll ever laugh again.

Next stop, Kamigoro.

Kamigoro.

Please exit to your left.

Attention, the Japanese government has declared a state of emergency.

In accordance with emergency regulations, this train will stop at the nearest evacuation point.

After disembarking, please proceed directly to your designated evacuation plan.

An angel.

Your final safety system is disabled.

Removal of all restraints.

You guys now delete.

It's so cold!

Almost done. 30 seconds to insertion.

Now that's a comfortable fit.

It's about time they got my measurements right.

The time is at hand.

All personnel, battle station, - - Target status? - It's advancing towards the geo-front.

It just breached the old Otawana defense line.

If I can feel the shockwave way down here, then we're in trouble.

Directing undisturbed force.

Damage is unknown.

Service systems have been destroyed.

That's 27 layers of plate armor vaporized.

The 10th Angel is cutting a path of carnage to our very heart.

It's more powerful than we could have imagined.

Status red.

We need every weapon at our disposal firing at this target.

Whatever it takes, hold it back.

They're launching Unit 2?

Who's piloting it?

Unknown.

Operations did not order its launch.

Target still active.

I don't care.

Evacuate all residents.

Authorizing third wave of N2 missiles.

You may launch when ready.

We don't have time to send an AVA to the surface.

Request approval from Europe.

Deploy Unit 2 to the geo front.

House Unit 0.

Now repairing the left arm.

It's just about ready.

We needed backing up unit two right away.

What even is not enough?

Roger.

What about unit one?

We're activating the dummy system right now.

Well, it's taking too long.

Isn't that where the city is?

We're gonna be okay.

We're almost to the GeoFront shelter.

It's the safest place on the planet.

Service breached!

Target entering GeoFront!

Quickly approaching Unit 2!

Patch me through to Unit 2!

The two-way call link has been cut off!

We're not getting through!

Is that so?

They want to do this alone then, huh?

Fresh LCL.

I don't even mind that it smells like the last pilot.

It's already breached the fifth line of defense.

Well, I'd better act fast.

Your HQ's done for.

*Evil's Holy crap, that's a strong AT field.

I can't even touch it from this distance.

Let's see what this bad boy can do. - Quick, wait, shithead!

Oh crap!

Nice move.

Sneaky bastard.

Dummy system now connected.

Go.

Initiate sequence.

Yes, ma 'am.

What happened?

The core units rejected the dummy.

It's no use.

It won't activate.

Shut it down.

Unit 1's refusing the dummy.

Ruyutski, please take command.

Let's get a better view.

It's kicking my ass so far.

All right.

Fingers crossed.

Let's strip off your humanity.

No more restraints.

Invert controls.

Backdoor code.

The Beast!

Bear with it, Unic 2.

You can do this.

This isn't easy for me either.

It's physically changing.

The Restrictors have been disengaged!

The readings are off the chart!

We can't read the plug interior!

Although...

Must be pushing the negative range.

This girl's clearly willing to risk contamination.

We can't let her!

It's too dangerous!

Nothing ventured...

Nothing... gained...

That's it!

Just a... little... more...

There it is!

Come on!

She released its bestial form, but that still wasn't enough for it to defeat the angel.

We've reached the limit of our capabilities.

You need zero?

She doesn't even have a rifle!

What's she doing?

Rey, no, don't do it!

Rey!

AT Field, max level.

I can do this for him.

So he never asked a pilot again!

The field's too strong!

A single Ava can't get through it!

All right, Unit 2.

This is it!

Your final task!

Just one!

One more layer!

Now run.

Get out of here.

Thank you.

Where's Unit Zero?

This shelter has been designated as an unsafe area.

Please evacuate immediately to a safe area.

I repeat this shelter has been Crap that hurt Almost bit the test back there Didn't expect to see you here You picked a great time to sit on your ass doing nothing.

Well, I...

I made up my mind not to pilot anymore.

Sounds like a pretty big conflict for you.

Don't you have better things to agonize over?

Well, there's no point in you sitting on the battlefield.

Here, I'll help you out.

I'm not gonna pilot it.

I'm not gonna do it!

I won't pilot anymore!

I don't get it.

What good is it doing you to sit around feeling all twisted up and sorry for yourself?

*Gasp* *Gasp* *Gasp* Is it devouring the Ava?

Impossible!

This is strange.

The Angel's ID pattern is becoming identical to Unit Zero!

Then we're done for!

The central Dompa's self-destruct system, it won't trigger.

That thing can walk right up to Lilith.

It's physically merging with Unit Zero.

It absorbed the pilot and everything.

You're gonna get killed if you stick around.

You need to get out of here.

Oh, well.

There he goes, I guess.

Oh, my God! - The shaft is completely exposed! - Is Unit One functioning? - Uninco-Wander plug in place!

Dummy system rejecting connection signal! - Keep trying.

Reset and begin again from Brio 8. - Why now?

Why are you rejecting me now, Huey? - Let me pilot it!

Please, please!

You have to let me pilot Unit One!

What are you doing here?

Father!

It's me!

The pilot of Evangelion Unit 1!

Shinji Ikari!

The target is now descending through Dogma Layer 7!

The target has passed Layer 7!

It's heading down here!

Evacuate non-combatants!

Emergency evacuation of non-combatants!

I repeat this...

Unit 1?

It's Shinji! - Is that how? - The platform, disengage more.

No!

You can't be serious!

Unit 1, it's reached its limit, and the backup power is down!

But Shinji...

Shinji!

I want Rey!

Give her back!

It's getting back up?

It's past its operational limit!

Has it gone berserk?

I don't know.

I don't even know how this is possible.

I'm not sure what It has that kind of power?

It's transcending the boundaries of humanity.

The plug depth has already passed 180.

His life's in danger.

Shinji, please stop.

You won't be able to come back.

I don't care what happens to me.

I don't even care what happens to the world.

But I'm bringing Rey back.

I promise I'll save you, Rey, even if it's the last thing I do!

You can do it, Shinji! - I'm sorry Even if I disappear, there are replacements.

There are replacements.

You're wrong!

You're the only ray there is!

And I'm saving you!

Right now!

Oh no!

Physical restrictors have deteriorated!

I can't analyze it!

Eva has broken free of our confines.

It's reclaiming its natural shape, casting aside humanity, transcending its physical form to become a divine being, weaving together the heavens and earth, becoming one with all of creation, expanding and transforming itself into pure energy.

All at the behest of a single human being, just to grant his desire.

I'm here, Ray!

Ray, come on!

Take my hand!

Reach out!

Reach!

I'm a woman, I'm You forced Unit One to become the catalyst before they had their pieces in place.

Well, Commander, Sailor won't take this line down.

We were right.

Their unity was enough to awaken Unit One.

Indeed.

It won't be long before our plan is complete.

We're almost finished.

Thank you, Ray. for trying to bring me and my dad together.

I'm sorry I couldn't.

I wanted you to be happy.

It doesn't matter.

This is all I need.

I get it now.

Things just work out for him, huh?

I wonder if that's the reason he smells so good.

And dance!

The nascence of a divine life-form and the toll of its creation is the demise of all life that came before it.

Wings.

I've seen them before.

Yes, it's just like fifteen years ago.

The third impact is beginning.

This is the end of the world.

Let's go.

I don't know what I'm saying I'll be a little I don't know.

If you have a single one, please be in your side.

Oh, Temple World What was that?

This is it.

The time has arrived, Shinji Akari.

And I give you my solemn word.

I'll show you true happiness.

Unit 1 is contained with Rei and Shinji still inside.

The city is laid to waste.

The Nerve staff is incarcerated.

Unit 6 descends through Central Dogma.

Unit 8 is given a pilot and brought to life.

Bound by fate, the children finally come together.

With their continued desire to live further challenge, where will the tale of our heroes lead us?

Next time, Evangelion Theatrical Edition Q.

All right then, more fan service coming soon.