This is the Evangelion.

I'm not going to die.

I will try to make you move on.

I'll take a while.

You won't.

I'll protect you.

He didn't want to go back to Ever.

I'll have to go down on his feet.

I'll have to be in his own. - I'll do it. - I'll do it.

Bye.

I'll do it again.

I love you!

I don't know if you want to do this thing.

I will not be able to laugh at you.

You have a child who helped you.

The Evo 2号機.

You're a idiot. - I want to ride How you're a little bit of a surprise.

You can't I'm not going to do anything.

I'm not going to do anything.

That's weird.

I'm suddenly like this.

I don't understand.

I've been waiting for 14 years.

I'm a leader of the Vile.

I'm a leader of the NELF.

I'm a child of NELF.

I'm a child of your own life.

The Evan Gellion 13th.

The moment that came, that young man and the Eva-NelF.

Eva -NelFだけは乗らない.

You're not going to do anything.

You're not going to die.

The door opened the EVA's door, and it was a trigger for third impact.

It was all you had to do.

You did not know what to do.

I'm not sure.

You're going to start with third impact.

You're going to get your hands off your hands off your hands.

You're going to die for the world.

You're going to be like Mishoto.

Mishoto, I'm going to be the TSS.

You're going to stop.

You're going to be a fool!

What is this?

Force Impact.

That's the beginning of the celebration.

It's my fault.

I'm going to take my gun.

This is my command.

Don't forget that.

We'll meet again, Shinji.

Kauru!

I'm not a good thing.

I'm a really bad guy.

I'm not a sin.

I hope there is still there.

Whatever time.

*Sings* I'm not sure I'm going to I'm going to go to the next stage.

I'm going to start the operation.

I'm I'm going to Check it out.

As the plan, the 4-2-A is all on the 8-5-A.

The time for 420 seconds is over.

It's time to take care of the crew.

It's like a 8-bit of a icon.

It's like an evil system.

It's easy to control the human language.

Stage 4 is clear.

I'm sure I'm going to make a lot of effort.

I'm not going to make it.

Yes.

Turn it!

*Many Don't let go!

I'm not going to Yeah Yeah *Skills* 4, 2, B, high energy, high energy, high energy!

All-in, the G:1 is in the right.

This is I'm going to get the target.

I'll do it!

I don't know.

Oh I'm sorry.

Excuse more FL!

4,4,C!

I'm completely silent!

The rest of the work is 30 seconds *Many's *sad* You can always go to where you are.

Wait, Wanko.

The End ¶¶ ¶¶ I'm not sure how I'll move you It's okay, then I'll go home I'm going to get your heart out It's a little cold Teacher, you're not wearing that much Well, it's okay And it's like a cat I'm going to talk to you I'm going to talk to you today I'll get out of here.

Let's go.

This is strange.

There are a lot of people.

What?

Is it the first time to go to the people?

Here is one of the oldest living in the house that has been gathered in the village.

The third village is a village.

I live in a thousand people.

That's the food station.

Three days a week.

I'll be giving you a good job.

Teacher, hello.

Oh, you're waiting for it.

You're right, right?

I don't have to worry.

Teacher, you two?

I gave you credit for the credit card.

Well, that's all.

I'll ask you a good job.

Yes.

Then I'll be sorry.

Oh!

What is the credit?

Credit is the thing that Ville made the support group.

Only for the money.

We also have to make the trade with other towns.

We're living in the town.

What is that?

The shape of the dog is different.

Huh?

That's a cat.

Cat?

Is it the first time you see a cat?

You're living in the car at the bottom of the car.

There's only a cat and a cat there, so you're happy.

This is the old house that is fun to eat.

I'll take a lot of food in a house.

I'm going to eat the dinner table right now.

Hey, I'm going to eat the dinner table.

Hey, everyone, wait a minute.

Let's eat the hot sauce.

You're hungry, you're hungry.

You don't have to eat it.

Well, if you want to eat, you'll come here. - I was not convinced I could not believe it, but I'm still a dream like this.

It's been a long time, IKARI.

And you too?

No, I'm not a YANAMI.

What is it?

Well...

So...

So-kuri!

What's this?

Oh, I'm the daughter of the woman.

It's a flower.

It's cute, right?

But it's a little.

Why did you have to be small?

What's that?

Did you see the first time you saw?

When you were born, you were younger.

The children are more smaller.

I'm sorry, I'm sorry I don't know.

What would you do with Ayanami?

You're different from Ayanami, right?

I'd like to do something that you think about yourself.

You're different from that?

It's been a long time, IKARI.

It's a long time, Aida.

Yes.

Well, Kensuke, I'll help you.

I've also helped you with this survival of the time.

If you don't have any time, I'll be able to go to the old age of the time.

Shinji-kun, you're good.

But eat your food.

That's the honor!

Well, my father...

I didn't have to ask you to eat the food.

I'm not sure if you were to get out of here.

But, Tōji, you can take a lot of money and eat it in a mouth.

Hey, Shinji!

My father, the Tsun is getting up.

Let's go and take a shower.

Look, you, Ikari and Ikari.

No, Ikari is taking a good job.

I think it's better.

It's a surprise.

I was married at the time when I was in high school.

The result was "N I don't know how to do this.

I'm going to get to the street right now, I got it.

We're going to have a self-build house for a long time.

I'll use it as well.

The toilet is in the middle of the car.

I'll take the fuel for the first time.

I'm so sorry Just like the anger It's not that you're the best tool, right?

I'm gonna leave it alone.

I don't want to go.

I don't want to go.

Icar, I'm fine now.

I'm just going to meet you again.

I'll just tell you what you like.

You're a friend, right?

I'm glad I'm going to live with you.

Hmm.

The manager.

I don't want you to remember.

I'm so sorry.

Good morning, you.

What's your day?

That's right.

I'm so sorry to sleep.

Good morning, Sokuri.

I'm tired of sleeping.

"Honey" is what?

That's right.

What do you think of the dream?

Good morning, Sockri-san The KENKEN is coming to 6:00.

I'm already out of work The morning is there Let's eat it!

It's a nice girl The wife told me that Sockri-san is here I'm here for today What's your name?

You're a lot of names.

You're okay with your help?

You're working with your help.

You're working.

You're going to be so you're going to be so.

You're not going to be working.

What's your job?

What's it?

You don't have to think about it.

Well, everyone's汗水.

汗水?

You're just a little bit of hand.

So, you can put it on the right side from the right side.

I can't hold it.

I just put your指 on.

I'll just be able to get慣れて.

You're only slow, so you're just getting close.

Yes.

This is water Ah!

Ah!

Ah!

This is work Oh, I've got to find a place It's not enough I'll take it It's not enough You've been working today I've been doing this This is the first day I worked for, so it's special What should I say to you?

Thank you Thank you Let's I don't know.

Oh What's"?

That's right, you know, It's all so bad.

It's hard to say that, but...

I'll have to go again.

The bullseye!

Just like eating the food, I'm so grateful!

You're still a little bit of a lilii!

I'm gonna live in a living!

So eat it!

I'm just a water It's all for me, so I don't want to do anything anymore Even if I'm a father's saying If you're the精神 level, I'd like to go to Eva!

You're alone, girl.

*Screams* *Screams* I I think so.

I think I'll *sad* My name?

Yeah, I don't care for you It's a talk about your name, but you don't forget your name If you want to put it in your own Name...

Put it in?

*sad music* Hon...

Ikari-kun's said... *crickets I'm one person.

I'm a person who's always here.

I'm always here.

I'm always here.

It's the best, Maseka.

Who's here?

I'm...

The first Rod?

I'm open the door.

Icon, I've heard you live here.

I'm not here.

I'm not sure how to do it.

I think I can't believe that I'm going to be a good one.

So, if you're going to be a good one, I'll be able to take the next step.

I'm going to take the next step.

*Gunshot* I'll get you back leads me into mystery.

I'm lost in the days.

Don't know if I've been there before.

My future there is vague.

I can only take a little.

Courage and conviction of my thoughts.

If I will ever see it through.

Such is the hand of faith Have I ever been here before Is it better that I don't know Have I anything left but faith Can I trust in my destiny Is it out of my hands to see Must I live by the hand of faith Is it playing a trick on me?

Is it making me think I'm gonna be somewhere in the past with love that I thought was gone for good?

It's just that I'll never see the day.

If you're another world away.

Then I will never see the day If you're a million miles away Who holds all the aces in the hand of fate?

The End I'll come here.

I'll wait for you.

Well, that's it.

I'll be able to get to this town.

Why do you not return to the town?

Icari is not doing anything here.

You are also the people who are守ing this town?

I'm not going to protect myself.

I've broken myself.

I don't want to talk.

I don't want to talk.

I don't want to come.

I want to stay.

Why are you so優しい?

I like you.

Thank you.

I'm sorry I'm sorry Hmm, it's over at home.

Thank you for the first time of the LOD.

You just can't cry and feel like you were so happy.

So, if you were to move, you can't stand for your job.

Sometimes you can drive, right?

It's a change of mood.

We are going to be exempt from I want to use the water that I have to use.

I want to make sure that the forest is left behind.

The 3rd place of life is a water system.

The water is important to check the water system.

The water is a matter of life.

I'll see the water in the next few weeks.

I'm going to work with the怒り.

I'll ask you to prepare your food.

No, I've never done anything.

I don't have to do it.

I'll tell you.

Well, I don't care.

My number is one of our units.

Next is...

That's the "Vile" of the house.

It's a type of "L-Q-R-L-R-A-L-R-A-L-R-A-L-R-A I'm not afraid of it.

But I'm sure I'm going to live in a long time.

That's the bread.

I'm enjoying it every year.

I'm going to live with a hard time and a fun time.

I'm going to live with a good day today, right?

I'm the youngest in my life, and I want to live well.

There are also some Tumas.

Really, I'm so excited.

Sokuri, you can always stay here.

My name?

So, you're ready?

Yeah, I'm not sure.

Then, let's go ahead and ask someone.

Your name?

So, I'd like to put a name here.

I'd like to be here.

That's why I have a name for my name.

So, I'd like to put a name here.

If I'm a name, you're not the one.

Whatever name is, I want to be the name of the Ikari.

The first Rod, do you think it's working?

Yeah, I was here today, but what?

I think so.

I'll do it.

So I can't live with Nelv Do you know, Shinji?

You've been a little bit of a time here - Yeah, a little bit. - That's right, too.

The city of this town has never been able to get down. - It was hard to get down. - Right, right?

There were a lot of things that were all about.

It was like a bad guy, and it was a world that was not able to live.

We were able to become a big guy and become a big guy.

We could have done something for the family.

I was able to say something that I could live I want to make a good job I'm living here Shinji I'm gonna fight for you I'll be here I'll be here I'll be here Thank you I don't know what I'm saying The love remains My wife was a great man, but she was so good She was born and born again My wife also was happy to cry Oh, you're laughing You're cute.

Really?

I'm not sure It's hard to get out of here, but I'm going to be able to It's been a long time.

You're a new teacher?

Well, that's it.

It's the first time you know.

I'm Kaji.

Kaji Ryoji.

What's your name?

How's it, Ikari?

You're a good guy.

Yes.

But the last one, Kaji...

Oh, I'm a child of Misato and Kaji.

I'm 14.

I don't know what my parents are.

It's a wish for Misato.

I'm not sure what you can do without a mother.

I'm just going to protect the child's responsibility.

Oh, Kaji?

You're not alone.

You're also suffering.

I'm going to *muchin' "Goodbye, good morning... thank you" "Goodbye" "Good morning" "Good morning?

How did you get this morning?"

"Ikari would like to see you" "This" Oh, thank you.

That's what I asked for.

I'm not sure.

Thank you.

You've been thinking about your name.

I'm just happy.

You can't live here.

But here is my favorite.

Ayaanami?

I understood that I'm happy.

Ayaanami, what was it?

I wanted to go to the forest. *sad* Oh, my God.

Oh, that's a good one.

That's a big one.

The leader of the Rican希望 is out there.

We're about to get a fight.

No, I'll take it.

I'm sorry, but I'll leave the record for today.

That's it.

If you're right, I'll do it.

What did you do?

*sad* ...

Suzuhara... ...

Sakura-san... ... ...

I'm going to get out!

I'm so sorry to say that I'm not going to get out of it! ...

I'm so sorry to say that! ...

I'm sorry to say that... ...

I'm sorry to I'm going to go to I'm sure that it's better than that.

There's a copy of the command.

That's why another pilot has been showing the situation in front of the front of the crew.

I'm sure he's back to the crew.

Why?

I think that's the case for me.

The report from the How do you do the situation with the other weapon and the艦外 work?

The 4th weapon and the艦外 work is no problem with the艦外 dock.

The EVA-1-0-0-3% is over 3% of the weapon.

Speed優先!

I'll take a check on the 5/5.

Yes!

N-1 rocket, 2nd of the 2nd of the air, 5 minutes.

The removal of the weapon is good.

But why are those weapons together?

I'll take it to the NERV again.

The EVE is a disaster in I believe I am a man who is a man who is a man.

Everyone is so sweet.

I don't know if I am the only one who is in the middle of the world.

I think I am ready to die.

I don't think that's enough.

The new 2号機 of JA parts and the connection to the test.

As you can see, the operation of the SAAA is going to be done.

The power of the fire is increased.

We are not the only ones that are less than us.

Hello.

Hello, honey!

I want to see you in the middle of the night.

I want to see you in the night.

What are you doing here?

There's a lot of books in the room.

The books are the集合体 of human beings.

We're going to read all of the books in the countryside.

That's my dream of the best.

By the way, What was the progress of your life with?

I don't have any interest Oh, you're not a man of the age of a girl I don't have a girl I don't need a girl My mother The operation of the company from the company is done The company's logistics is ready The company's company is ready The company's company is ready to approve the company's own and the company's entire limited service I'm not sure what NERV is starting to move, and the Black Sun is in the middle of the night of the Black Sun.

The Black Sun is the only thing that is to be the Black Sun is the return of the Black Sun.

It's a simple thing that's the body of Adam's body.

It's a simple human body, and it's a simple human being created with a pure soul.

It's the "Advanced Ayanami" series.

The plan of human being saving people.

The first step to the fear of the fear of the fear of the human being is this.

The third boy came back to Vile.

I don't know what I'm I don't need to meet you I'm a experience.

Second Impact.

Come on, Shinji!

It's not for anyone!

It's for you!

The chief, this is the NER I'm ready to go You can't change the I'll bring you back to the I'm sure that's it At that time, I really wanted to leave the hospital with a fire I guess... if there was a child in the middle of the MISATO, I would have been forgiven I'm in a position, so I'm going to go to the hospital block IKARI, please don't move there If you're in a place, please call me on the red button Then, let's go.

The plug-in-suit I'm going to start the 8th of the Dragon Carrier, no matter what.

The test is no longer, let's go to the main stage.

The final 6th bolt is removed.

The main task is now in the射出.

This is a camera.

I want to take a walk.

Yeah That's Are you done You can't you Hint I'm a big woman I'm a big woman I'm a parachute You're still a great person I'm a Mari Machina Mi Marie Lastrias I'll be back I'll be back Vile no one cook Chito変わったね What's the smell of a big one?

It's not that easy to change, this guy I'll tell you later I'm gonna fight you I understand?

Asuka was riding the 3-5-5-5 I didn't want anything to do.

I didn't want to help me, and I didn't want to kill myself.

I'm not sure what I'm doing.

I'll tell you, so I'll tell you.

I've always been eating your dinner.

I thought you liked Shinji.

But I've become a big fan.

Okay, then.

You are doing well.

You're so good, Icarim.

Bye.

Hi-me, you're so excited?

Yes, I'm so excited.

"EVA Pilot" "EVA I'm not going to be able to do that.

This is the end of the game, as well as the force impact, the new NELF team is in the next part of the game.

This is the end of the game's game, and the end of the game is the end of the game.

I'll take a look at this entire chaos.

I'll go! - Team!

The entry is over.

We are going to go to the enemy mode.

We can enter the unit of the ship.

We can cut the link to the link.

We can change the system and control system.

We can enter the unit of the ship.

*Balloon music plays* All blocks are in the L5.

I need to go ahead and I'm going to enter the area of I'm sorry to have a good time I'll be able to get the point to the L-GETKAI to go, I'll be able to get the point left I'll be ready, I'll be ready I'm not going to be the 2nd, I'm not sure I'm not going to be the same way The 2nd, the 2nd, the air raid I've already finished I'm sorry, let's get to the moment I'll be able to do it The second time is to go to the 13th century.

The same power of the magic of the dragon, too.

The ultimate battle!

The ultimate battle.

We're ready to go to the point of the NERV.

Let's go!

*Lighting* Wow!

I'm "The end of Oh Oh I'm going to hit the right hand!

That's not a good one!

Turn the power!

Roll the clock 180 degrees!

I'm going to put it in the air!

I'm going to get it!

*Lighting* "Do you use the third hand on the sword?

I'm not sure if I'm confused."

*Lighting* I'm going to get into the I'm not sure what you're doing.

I've got a new gun at the I'm not expecting that.

The 13th - Yeah, hoi!

Doke!

Doけ!

Hey, I'm going to go!

I'm going to go!

The *Mirror* Lio-ki, Welf-Hombring, come!

The 6/4 is at the bottom of the rocket's base.

*Ezio-san* *Ezio-Bad* The EVEA 13th century...

I was able to...

I was waiting for the Lord's hope to get the first time to make people's first mission.

The third-party-class war-like war-like war-like war-like war-like war-like war-like war-like war-like war This is the end!

What's wrong?

What are you doing?

It's strange!

I'll destroy the Nelfi ship!

The second impact is the time of the world's death.

The hell is again open.

What is it?

The eyes of the light?

The second impact is the force of the force.

No, Gahf's ship is not able to be able to trigger the ship.

This is not a scenario of the X-ray.

It's not a complete surprise.

It's an amazing impact.

The situation is not enough.

The plan is to destroy the NELF.

The first time we'll be ready to go to the 3rd.

We'll be able to go to the 3rd.

The first time we're ready to go to the 3rd.

The first time we're ready I'm sure I'll be able to finish it!

I'm not going to be able to do anything!

I'm sorry, I'm not going to be the last method.

I'm still going to get you.

I'm going to get the limit!

I'm going to go to the 3-9!

*Pain* I'll kill you, Blatt!

I'll kill you!

I don't know.

Ah!

Ah!

Ah!

Ah!

Ah!

H...

姫!

People... ...stereki!

I'll be able to Ah!

Ah...

You're the same *gunshot Oh *Panical music* "Masker!"

"The new 2nd, all the signals are lost.

The pilot's situation is not clear!"

"The rocket's N2-3, the air!

The air!

What is this?

"What is this?!

What's that?

I'm stuck!

The pattern is the same.

The OPP-H type is the same.

I've been in the M9.

It's a bad thing!

The body is being absorbed!

I'm not going to Look at FUYUTSUKI FUKSHIR, it's amazing.

The movement of the original Lilith and the force of the black-eyed sword.

The team has been整ed.

How do you play the final line?

Ika-Li.

Let me check the enemy of the army!

Ika-Li.

Sorry, my sister.

It's the end of the I can't wait for this place.

I'm sorry.

Ikari, sir.

You've been so hard, Katsuragi-dai-san.

I'm going to use this ship as soon as I can.

You?

You don't have to worry about the purpose of the mission.

Yes.

I'm going to teach you. *gunshot * *gunshot* No one's no harm.

All of us will be accepted.

Icari Gendo, Nebkadonethal's key, and let them die.

I'll just put the information on this world There's no problem.

I killed the Lord, and I'm going to This is the end of the day.

No, it's the first time of the universe of the beginning of this planet.

We're going to change all the souls of the core.

We're going to start the first phase of the Force Impact.

Yes.

The second impact is the sea, the third impact is the sea, and the fourth impact is the sea, and the force is the soul.

What is the core of the The mission of God gave the birth of two people This is all the horsemen.

Then, I'll return the E.V.A.

I'll return the E.V.A.

Father!

Oh, my.

The End *BOOM* Unfortunately, I'm not sure how to stop the building.

I'll never stop the building.

I'll be the first one.

Misato, I'm going to be the EVA first one.

I'm sorry.

I'll take it over half a half That's why I'll fight with Gendou I want to make my own reward Stop it!

I'm not kidding I'm not going to be able to get to Eva I thought I was going to be like this Sergeant!

This situation was no requirement for the attack My doctor!

You're the reason why you're in the Nia-San My life is so huge!

All the things you're in the world You're not allowed to forgive me Ah Sakura Icarin Shin Yes Misato Misato It's good 14 years ago you didn't have to ride the EVA I was already dead So I'm thankful And even though I was a person who was born I have all my responsibility I am the director of the Katsuragi-missato, and I am the responsible for the action of his actions.

I have to prove all of the Shinshi-kun.

That's it!

I am the king of my life!

But my father also has to be dead!

I got you I'm not a enemy!

I'm not a enemy!

I'm not going to die!

I'm fine!

You're fine, Sakura I'll just think of the future that we'll live in tomorrow I'm not going to die!

Renko!

I've been getting ready!

Let's go!

Wanko!

Maya, I have a plug-in bag of the plug-in.

The ball will just break.

I'm doing it now.

You're okay,将尉.

Icari Shinji-kun, I want to kill my father to my son, or kill him, or kill him.

I'm taking a job.

Misato, I met him with my job.

You were good?

Yes.

I'm good.

He was a really good guy.

I haven't talked a little bit, but I like him.

Thank you.

I'll always support you.

I'll ask you, Shinji.

Misoto, I'll go.

I'll go.

*Muchasperial music* I'm going to create a new miracle Overlapping-like development and the 4-in-1 system that we have to use for the power of Adam's device We're all going through this universe It's a great thing Well, Wanko, what you're doing is that the anti-L systems are all stopped and everyone is breaking up Before we destroy the 13th century and we can't plan to restore the universe I understand I'm going to go back I'll always go to where you are IKARI君...

Sorry...

IKARI君...

I was able to go to EVERA and I couldn't live without you I'm sorry, I'm That's the most close number.

Yes.

The sync率 is the most powerful.

Here.

I'm going to change the hope of the Casius.

Stop it, father.

No, I'm not going to be able to do something.

I'm going to You were here.

Everything started.

You see?

I'm so tired of I don't know what the hell.

Ugh.

*Sigh* The End I'm not going to I don't know.

I can't *Many's I want to talk to you Father...

Father...

Father, what do you want to do here?

This Golgoda object is not possible.

It's an additional impact.

That's what I'm going to do with my own head.

I'm going to send you the last two of them here.

I think that the magic copy I'm sure you I'm sorry I'm sorry I want to show you what you want.

This...

Black Rilis?

Is it what you remember?

Evangelion Imaginary.

The original one that you have predicted was that the original one had not been discovered.

It's an epic epic dream.

The human beings believe the reality and reality.

The human beings can only be recognized.

The fear and I'm the only This is the additional impact?

Yes, I think it's an image of the ever-imaginary.

It's true to be true.

This is true!

It's true!

I'm not sure how much the light of the light is going to be.

Yes, I'm not a friend of mine.

I'm not sure what I'm saying.

I always have a light that gives a hope.

But it's always a hope that I can die.

I'm too much too much for hope.

Gendou is the center of the center of I've been so long for that, my name.

Now, let's go.

Yui, it's better.

*Sounds of fire* I'm moving!

I'm not going to do this!

You're here, But for the reason why I'm using this, I'll be the best!

This is 8+9+10!

I got it I'm going to go back to the 5th Capsel I'm going back to the mainframe I'm going to go back to the mainframe This is my job now How much is it?

The mainframe, we have to do a replacement I think we can do it I understand We're going to the mainframe of the mainframe We'll move forward to the mainframe I'm sure I can't believe it.

And my responsibility is...

I'm...

I'll ask the children to live.

I understand, Misato.

I'll be the best.

Thank you.

Oh You be電磁力 残ります Yeah, I'm sorry You're not You're not It's a new engine.

I'm not going to use you anymore.

I'm going to sleep slowly, Adams.

Wunder has moved.

I'm going to hurry up.

But...

I'm going to be able to create the physical and mental.

I'm going to be able to create the physical and mental.

You...

What are you doing?

You don't have to choose the AT Field.

The world is the world of human beings.

No other people.

There are no harm, discrimination, conflict, Yui!

Yui, where is it?

Where is Yui?

Everything is here, right?

Where is it?

Where is it?

Yui!

Father, let's stop now.

Why?

Why is Shinji here?

I want to know what I want to know.

Even though I was so sad, I was always close to my father.

I'm afraid that I'm not going to be able to kill you.

But I want to know now...

Father's voice...

AT Field...

This is me who left me...

Is it...

Is this...

This is not to be able to But, with the coming of The world was not completely I was so sad One is knowledge.

The knowledge of the only knowledge is filled with I love that system.

I love you.

I knew the first time I could have been a lonely person.

I couldn't stop my feelings and lose my feelings.

I wanted to cry with my heart.

I wanted to change my feelings and change my feelings.

I wanted to become a dream.

I can't meet Yui with the weakness, Shinji I'm not sure how to get out of here.

*Ezio* "B It's time to I'm going to *Ezio Thank you, Izato.

I was thinking that I didn't meet my children, and I didn't I'm sorry, Shinji.

That's right.

You were there, Yui?

He is the center of the "Horror of the I will take my father's attention, Asuka I don't know what he does He doesn't know what he does He doesn't need anyone, Asuka I'll make it easier to be a good person Because it's hard to do that Because it's hard to live I'm going to get to the Eva.

I don't care if I can.

I don't have any value of my life.

I need to have a strong body and heart.

That's why I praise you.

I recognize you.

I give you a place to me.

It's really sad.

It's just that I wanted to be able to kiss you.

That's fine.

Asuka is Asuka.

That means it's all about that I'm so sorry.

I'm so sorry.

I want to talk about you again.

I want to share this with you.

Thank you for saying that I like you.

I also like Asuka.

Bye, Asuka.

Please, Kensuke.

"Hime, go to the end" "Hah!"

"I've been told, Shinji-kun, you're not sad, right?"

"Yes, I'm fine, now it's your turn, Kaoru-kun" "I've been thinking about this, I've been here, and I've been here, and I'm here."

"I've been bringing my life to the name of my life, so I've been here."

I'm the same.

I'm the same.

That's why I wanted to be a happy one.

That's right.

Kauru is like a father.

That's why I was riding on the same boat.

It's different from every time, Shinji.

Do you cry?

Yes.

I'm just gonna save my own eyes.

If I'm not a person, I can't save anyone.

So I'm not going to die That's I want to be happy.

I want I'm not sure what I mean, I think *Lighting* Yes. - Who's your friend?

Who?

Aya波?

No...

That's right.

I was always in my house, my mother.

I finally understood.

My father wanted to send my mother to me.

That's what my father's wish.

The murder of my father.

*Sings* I'm sorry, People are changing the way People are not aware The first time is going to be gone How far is it far?

I can't return to you I've met you and I've loved you I will die until I die I will not be proud I will not be able to die I have met you and I have loved you I will be proud to Oh Good job Thank you.

Thank you.

8+9+10+11+12.

Thank you.

Thank you.

The last Evangelion.

Oh, you're Who's that?

I'm a good girl with a big heart I'm sorry It's a good smell to be a great taste It's a good smell to be a big smell You're so cute I'm like, "I'm going to hear you" Let's go, Shinji.

Let's go.

Go!

Can you give me one last kiss?

I don't want to forget I don't want to forget I love you more than you'll ever know Oh Let's kiss, 燃えるような kissもしよう 忘れたくても 忘れられないほど I love you more than your love, no I love you more than I love you now I know, I understand Even though I'm still a year I love you.

Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.

Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.

Fui te ii ta, ka ze no ato oi kaketa, ma bushiikooko.

I'm sorry.

Beautiful world Beautiful boy もしも願い一つだけ 叶うなら 君のそばで眠らせて Don't know I'll see you next time.

I'm so happy to be here.

Oh beautiful world, it's only love もしも願い一つだけ叶うなら 君のそばで眠らせて It's only love It's only love It's only love It's only love It's only love It's only love Beautiful boy