Transcription by CastingWords Of course it would have to show up right now of all times.

Just my luck.

We're sorry.

Due to the state of emergency that has been declared, all lines are currently out of service.

No good.

My cell's not getting a signal either.

And none of the buses and trains are running. so much for meeting here i guess i should go find a shelter Oh, my God.

Oh no!

Hi there!

Sorry I'm late.

Target is still active.

Now advancing on Tokyo-3 out of defense perimeter.

Air Force reports first wave attacks ineffective.

Launcher full assault.

Fourth Division, close in and cut off its line of advance.

Hit it with everything you've got.

Bring that target down at all costs.

What the hell?

Why is it still standing?

The tank battalion's been wiped out.

That thing is just striding over our defenses like they're not even there damn it then we hit it harder We can't let it get through an AT field as we expected Conventional weapons won't be of any use against an angel Yes understood will activate the contingency plan What the heck are they do oh crap they're gonna use an into mine Get down!

We did it!

Sorry, gentlemen.

It seems you won't be needed here today after all.

Are you okay?

I think...

I just can't get this dirt out of my mouth.

I'll take that as a yes.

So, ready?

Push on three!

Three!

Now that wasn't so bad, was it?

Thanks for helping me out.

Come on, I should be thanking you, Miss Katsuragi.

Oh, please, it's Misato.

And I'll guess you prefer Shinji over Mr.

Ikari.

Yeah.

What's the status of the target?

You saw that explosion.

It's over.

Visuals back online.

That was it.

Our ace in the hole.

It had no effect.

God damn it!

At least the car didn't get totaled.

That would have been bad news.

I've still got 12 payments left on the loan, and I doubt my insurance covers in two mines.

Oh, I also requested express lift service, so that should help us make up some time once we get there.

But you're being awfully quiet.

You okay?

What?

Oh, yeah.

You sure?

I figured you'd be asking a million questions by now.

Um, no.

Sorry.

It's nothing you have to apologize for.

It's just, you know, what was that huge thing back there?

Why did I almost get blown to smotherines?

Natural responses.

Well, um, guess I figured you wouldn't give me answers even if I asked.

So, you're the type that likes to assume the worst, huh?

That's pretty jaded for a kid.

I'm not jaded.

I'm just doing what my teacher told me to do, that's all.

Oh.

Well, that's fine.

Incidentally, that thing we saw back there was a life form known as an angel. *gunfire* The fourth angel.

Its ability to regenerate itself is quite impressive.

We're dealing with the near perfect lifeform, entirely self-sufficient.

It's to be expected.

Those who ate of the fruit of life, indeed.

Yes, they exist only to destroy us who ate of the fruit of wisdom.

*Word* Switch gates now closed.

I can't fear.

Nerve?

Yep.

We're a clandestine organization that answers directly to the UN.

That's where my dad works, isn't it?

Well, yeah.

You do know what your father does, don't you?

All I know is what my teacher told me.

He said it was something important to mankind's future.

As of now, operational command will be transferred to you and your team.

It's time to show us what you've got.

I understand.

At this point, it's clear that our weapons do not provide adequate means to deal with the target, which makes you our last line of defense, Ikari.

So tell us, can you stop this thing?

That's what nerves for, gentlemen.

Will my dad be waiting for us once we get there?

I don't know.

It depends, I guess.

Dad.

Oh, that reminds me.

Did he happen to send you an ID card?

I think.

Do you mean this?

Perfect, thanks.

And here, you better read this.

Welcome to Nerve?

Wait, so does this mean I'm going to be working for them somehow?

Guess it wouldn't surprise me.

No way Dad would have asked me to come unless he needed something.

Sounds like you and your dad don't get along too well.

Guess we have that in common.

Wow!

That's... it's the real Geofront!

Yep.

And that's it, our secret underground base.

Nerve HQ.

The key in the effort to rebuild our world and ensure mankind's place in it.

Let's see.

From the station's west entrance, we took a ride at Northgate No. 3, which takes us to Route 8.

I swear it's like they set this place up to be confusing on purpose But I'm pretty sure we're on the right track now though Um, are we lost?

I'm new here, okay?

But if we keep moving, we'll get there eventually Stage two, cooldown complete Magnets crew return to surface Pressure stable Finish thawing out the conductors in the left arm I want it ready in three minutes And don't forget to chart the apoptosis data during the procedure Report for Dr.

Rikagi.

Arrival of Lieutenant Colonel Katsuragi of Operations Section 1 and one additional member confirmed in SHOUT S365-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5-5 So this is the boy, I take it?

Yep.

Ritsuko Akagi, head of Project E Technology Division, Section 1.

It's a pleasure.

Uh, yeah.

I'll leave the rest to you.

Their first reunion in three years.

Vice Commander, we've confirmed that the target is coming online.

Understood.

All personnel to battle stations, condition 1.

Revealing, all personnel to battle stations.

Condition one, prepare to intercept the wrong target.

Shinji Ikari, I'm going to show you something.

You're looking at the most advanced weapons system ever developed by man, the synthetic humanoid Evangelion.

This is Unit 1, humanity's last hope for survival.

So this is part of my dad's work?

It is?

It's been quite a while.

It's you.

We're moving out.

Moving out?

But Unit Zero is still in suspension, right?

You can't seriously be considering activating Unit One.

Do you know of another option?

Shinji Ikari.

You will be the pilot.

Dad, why did you sin for me?

I think the reason has already been made obvious.

So what?

You expect me to just get in this thing and fight?

Is that it?

Correct.

But that's crazy!

Why are you doing this?

You never wanted me here before!

Why now?

Because now I have a use for you.

But why?

Why me, Dad?

It would be impossible for anyone else.

It's impossible for me.

I've never even seen anything like this before.

How can I be the pilot?

He'll receive instruction.

No, it...

It just won't work.

I...

I'm telling you, there's no way!

If you're going to do it, do it now.

If not, leave.

Damn it.

It knows our location.

Level one.

Armor plating eight destroyed.

Shinji, there isn't much time.

Fire alert.

Block D.

All personnel, please evacuate immediately.

Get in, Shinji.

It's not fair.

If I'd known he'd wanted this...

Oh, why did I come?

Why did you?

Why did you come, if not for this?

You mustn't run away.

Not from your father, and especially not from yourself.

I know that, but...

What you're asking is impossible!

Fuyutsuki, begin prepping Rei.

But can we use her?

She's not dead yet.

Understood.

Ray.

Yes?

We can't use the spare.

You're going out.

Yes.

Let's move!

Switch out the core unit!

Set Unit 1 to the L0 type and reactivate!

Roger.

Canceling current operation.

Reconfiguring core unit.

I knew it.

He didn't really need me.

No one does.

Target has blocked the last line of defense.

Moving into position directly overhead.

Are you alright?

I mustn't run away.

I mustn't run away.

I mustn't run away.

I mustn't run away.

I mustn't run away!

Fine, I'll do it.

I'll be your pilot!

Stage three cooldown complete.

Auto-invitation altered.

Disengaging.

Auxiliary voltage nominal.

Terminal signal plug.

Ejecting now.

Ejection confirmed.

Inserting entry plug.

Releasing spinal cord transmission system.

Establishing connection.

Move insertion complete. - Holding at two-- - Psychological contamination is within the standard range.

Holding at plus zero two to minus zero five.

Interior successfully entered.

Interior check.

Initiate primary contact.

Now flooding entry clock.

Wait, what is this?

Just relax.

Once your lungs are filled with the LCL, it'll allow your blood to be oxygenated directly.

You'll get used to it.

Primary power source connected.

Round and out.

In the shading secondary contact.

Connecting interface.

HM neural connection nominal.

LCL charge is normal.

Set com visit morphology.

Localize all verbal command settings.

Primary contact phase complete.

All nominal.

Opening communication channel.

Checklist all clear through 1-4-0-5.

Synapse synchronization rate 41.3%.

And that's without the benefit of a plugsuit.

Incredible.

Harmonics are within normal parameters.

No instabilities detected.

Right, we're clear.

We are go for launch!

Initiating launch sequence.

Disengage lock bolt one.

Disengage confirmed.

Retracting a millical bridge.

Disengage lock bolt two.

Disengage lock bolt two confirmed.

Now removing restraint gear one and two.

Releasing safety on the runway 215.

Release confirmed.

Current status, Unit 1 is free.

Internal batteries fully charged.

External power source connection nominal.

Roger that.

Transfer either Unit 1 to the launch pad.

All unit transport systems are good to go.

Red hydraulics operating normally.

Unit 1 currently traveling along path 5-2.

The electromagnetic field adjusted.

Ava Unit 1 has arrived at the launch terminal hub.

Now lock it in position.

Awaiting final launch clearance.

List 6, Dabby 5, opening launch gates 1 through 8.

Launch path is clear.

All green.

Prep sequence complete.

Understood.

Last chance to abort.

No.

Either we stop that Angel, or humanity's future ends here.

Ikari, are you sure this was the right thing to do?

Launch it!

Ready, Shinji?

Yeah, ready.

Here we go!

Release final safety!

Evangelion Unit 1, move out!

Shinji, just concentrate on walking for now.

Walk.

He's doing it.

Just walk.

Shichi, pull it together!

You have to get up!

Now!

Listen to me!

Don't panic!

Your arm isn't really being pulled!

Focus!

Where are the Ava's defenses?

System unresponsive.

The field hasn't deployed.

What?

Why?

Left arm damage!

Acer, cut!

No!

Xinjiang!

We have a crack in the cranial plating.

The armor won't last much longer.

Hit damage!

Extent unknown!

Situation critical!

What's the status?

The synchronization graph is inferring!

Pulse reversing!

Break the circuit!

Try to stop it!

No good!

It's rejecting the signal!

We're locked out!

How's Shinji?

No response!

Condition unknown!

Unit 1 is completely shut down!

Misato!

So that's it!

Aboard mission!

Pilot's safety is top priority!

Get him out of there now!

Eject the flock!

It's no use!

All remote links have been severed!

No, Shinji!

Unit 1, reactivate!

It's what?

That shouldn't be possible!

Unit 1, drop the one normal power!

Oh no, this call berserk!

We've done it.

It's an AT field.

This is bad.

As long as the Angels got that field up...

We won't be able to touch it.

Left arm restored!

No way!

Unit 1 has also deployed an AT field.

It's neutralizing the phase space.

My God, it's breaking right through it.

It just tore through that AT field. like it was nothing.

*Gunshot So now we've seen it.

The Ava's true form.

So, have you picked out a name?

If it's a boy, we'll name him Shinji.

If it's a girl, Rei.

Shinji, Rei.

Shinji, Shinji, Shinji, Ayanami.

Rei, Rei, Rei Ikari.

No, Rei, Ayanami.

I don't recognize this ceiling.

The fourth Angel's attack and subsequent destruction.

The acquisition of the third child, AVA Unit 1's successful deployment.

All according to plan, it would seem.

The astronomical cost of repair to Unit 1 was an unexpected setback.

Compared to Unit 0's suspension, however, this is a minor concern.

The recovery operation for AVA Unit 1 has been completed.

It's currently being held in Cave 6.

The inspection of the unit is set to take place today at 10 hundred hours.

What about the mission recorder?

Nothing.

No data.

It went offline when the Ava went berserk.

So we won't know the cause, which means this could happen again.

And next time, we might not be so lucky.

How serious was this malfunction?

Will the unit be ready when the fifth angel appears?

You needn't be concerned.

Now that Unit 1 is assigned to active duty, Unit 2 and its designated pilot are undergoing evaluation in Germany.

C2 and Unit 3 and the rest are also completed on schedule.

We are counting on you not to disappoint us.

It is your duty to ensure that Nerve and the Evas are utilized appropriately.

Precisely.

Annihilating the Angels is only one part of our covenant with Lilith.

The Human Instrumentality Project.

This is our ultimate goal.

I would advise you not to lose sight of it.

I understand.

Rest assured, Sele's plans will soon come to fruition.

The disintegration of the Angel after it lost its Etihad.

It's beyond anything we anticipated.

It's like staring into the bloody pools of hell.

Reminds me of the second impact, you know?

Not a good feeling.

The Avas can beat the angels.

The fact that we're even here to see this means that mankind has a sliver of hope.

It seems the pilot shouldering that hope has just woken up.

Paging Dr.

Ugai.

Dr.

Ugai, Eternal Medicine 1.

Please contact Dr.

Azuma in Surgery 1 immediately.

Medical conference with incident B will be held in schedule.

All project coordinators, please proceed to conference room 2.

Alone?

Seriously?

That's right.

His room will be in block six up ahead.

I trust you have no problem with that.

No.

What?

Really?

You're okay with this?

Yeah, it's fine.

I'd rather be alone.

It's... well, it's what I'm used to.

What did you say?

You heard me.

I said I decided to let Shinji stay at my place.

What's the big deal?

I cleared it with the higher-ups.

You don't have to worry about a thing.

I promise I won't put the moves on him.

I hope not!

Why would you even say something like that, honestly?

Oh yeah, she never did have a sense of humor.

So, what do you say?

You ready to live it up tonight?

I don't know.

Come on, let me throw a welcome party for my new roomie.

It'll be fun.

Is it true?

You're really moving?

We sure are.

I mean, we never dreamed this place would really turn into a war zone.

It's just gotten too dangerous.

I know what you mean.

My husband is telling me that the children and I should evacuate too.

Oh, did you hear?

There were over 100 relocation notices filed this morning alone.

It doesn't surprise me.

I don't care how much they fortify this city.

When it comes down to it, you can't count on nerve or anything.

Oh, I think the shiver's just thinking about yesterday.

How close we came?

I know, right?

Hope you don't mind, but we need to make a tiny little side trip.

Where are we going?

Somewhere nice.

You'll see.

From up here, the city just looks so lonely.

It's time. *music* Amazing!

The buildings, they're growing!

This whole city is a fortress built to intercept angels.

It's our city, Tokyo 3.

Take a good look down there.

You see it?

That's the city you protected.

Oh, good.

It looks like they delivered your stuff already.

I just moved in here the other day myself, so I still have some unpacking to do, too.

Well, come in.

Okay.

Thanks for having me.

Shinji, this is your home now.

Just come in.

Well, home sweet home.

Home sweet home.

Oh, sorry it's a little messy.

Like I said, I'm just settling in.

This is a little messy?

Hey, while you're out there, would you put the food away in the fridge?

Yeah, sure.

Ice?

Snacks?

Nothing but beer?

What did I get myself into?

All right.

Let's dig in.

Uh, okay.

Ah!

Yeah!

I tell you, Shinji, it's moments like these that make it all worthwhile, don't you think?

You're not eating.

I know it's all microwave food, but it's good, trust me.

Well, it's just, I don't usually eat stuff like this, so...

Are you being picky?

No, I just meant that...

It looks good.

Kind of nice, right?

Two roomies sitting down to a hot home-cooked meal.

Right.

Good, because from now on, this is your place as much as it is mine.

So kick back and make yourself comfortable, okay?

All right.

Right, right, right, right.

Is that all you know how to say?

Step out of it!

You can't just agree on everything anyone tells you!

Right?

Anyway, I know just the thing you need.

A nice hot bath to clear your head.

Wash all those worries down the drain.

Misato, there's a thing!

A what?

I don't know if it's...

Oh, that thing.

He's a bird, actually.

A warm-water penguin.

Since when do birds like that even exist?

Since always, I guess.

Though they're rare these days.

His name's Pen-Pen.

I should have mentioned he lives with me.

Just think of him as another roomie.

And now that you've met, why don't you go cover up?

Maybe I was acting just a little too cheery.

But it was all I could do to keep a straight face.

Misato Katsuragi.

She's not a bad person.

She means well.

Wash all those worries down the drain.

But for me, baths only bring back a wash of bad memories.

How did Ray seem this afternoon?

You went to see her today, didn't you?

At the hospital?

She'll be fine.

She'll be ready when it's time to reactivate Unit Zero.

That's all that matters.

Then what about your son?

Psychologically speaking, he seems rather unstable.

Let him be.

If nothing else, it gives us an excuse to bring Unit Zero out of suspension.

Then we'll act in accordance with Lieutenant Colonel Katsuragi's suggestion.

The third child suddenly selected without a preliminary report.

And the timing of the Angel attack the same day he was scheduled to arrive.

Not only that, but the fact that he's Commander Ikari's son.

The coincidences just keep stacking up.

Yet we did defeat the angel that has to count for something.

But I still don't like it.

Another ceiling I don't recognize.

I guess that's no surprise.

There's no place in this entire city I'm familiar with.

Shinji, this is your home now.

Why am I here?

Shinji, I'm opening the door, okay?

Listen, I forgot to tell you something.

What you did the other day was a good thing, an admirable thing.

You should feel proud, okay?

Okay, Shinji.

Hang in there.

Sorry about that, new kid.

Thing is, I owed you one and I had to do it.

It just wasn't gonna feel right until I did.

I apologize.

Don't take it personally, though.

Toji's sister got hurt in that mess the other day.

Well, I guess I'll see you around.

What did I do?

It's not like I wanted to be the pilot.

What?

Are you ready, Shinji?

Yes.

As you know, all angels have a part called the core.

It is their one weak spot.

Destroying it is the only way we can physically eradicate an angel.

This is what you'll aim for.

Center in on the target, and then pull the trigger.

Repeat this drill until you've learned to do it by feel.

Right.

Yes, very good.

We'll continue practicing in the induction mode for now.

Right.

I must say I'm a bit surprised that Shinji agreed to be a pilot again.

I think he's just the type that does what he's told.

I'd guess that until now, that's how he's gotten through life.

Center in on the target and then pull the trigger.

Center in on the target and then pull the trigger.

Center in on the target and then pull the trigger.

Center in on the target and then pull the trigger.

That reminds me.

I heard Shinji was hit by a classmate on his first day of school.

Are you sure we have adequate security for the pilots?

The intelligence department has them under constant surveillance.

He was never in any real danger.

Besides, I think it's better not to interfere in his private life if we can avoid it.

Says the woman who's living with him.

His maintenance is still part of your job, isn't it?

Technically speaking, he's just so much more naive and complicated than I expected.

Complaining already.

You're the one who insisted on taking him in.

Oh, shut up.

You're right, though.

From what I've been able to tell of him, Shinji's personality may not be geared toward making friends.

Have you ever heard of the hedgehog's dilemma?

Hedgehogs?

Those little spiky critters?

See, with hedgehogs, even if they want to get close to one another for warmth, the closer they get, the more they risk hurting each other with the quills on their bodies.

It's really no different for people.

Shinji is worried about what will happen if he lets someone get too close.

He's afraid of that pain, and that's made him pull away completely.

Can you believe this?

It's crazy, right?

I know.

Well, he'll figure it out someday.

The part of growing up is allowing yourself to get hurt sometimes.

To keep letting people in until you finally find that safe distance where you can be close without hurting each other too much.

I hope you're right.

Jeez, when are they going to approve the budget to repair this part of Building V anyway?

Maintaining the Avas and keeping them equipped takes top priority.

So, probably never.

They could at least bring for seat warmers.

There's an emergency.

Come on, let's go.

We have a confirmed visual on the object.

E-747 target verified.

Analysis pattern blue.

It's here.

The fifth angel.

Now, battle stations, condition one.

Roger that.

Preparing city for ground-to-air interception.

Tokyo-3 transitioning to battle configuration.

Central block commencing retraction.

I'm sorry.

*Extreme music* Transition complete.

Central block and districts 1 through 7 have been retracted.

Government ministries and military departments have been notified.

Target is continuing its advance.

Air defense system currently operating at 48%.

Status of non-combat personnel and civilians.

So far, all districts reporting successful evacuation.

Students, please stay with your class.

All other residents, please proceed to your designated blog.

The District 7 lost children's...

Man, they're doing it again.

Where they just post some goofy message?

It's what you call a news blackout.

They don't want civilians like us to see what's going on.

A major event like this doesn't seem fair.

A waste of the taxpayer's money.

I guess these military types just won't be satisfied until they've fired all their bullets.

Japanese government, they're requesting EVO mobilization.

They just don't get it, do they?

We'll mobilize whether they request it or not.

LCL charged.

Crip lock released.

Dad isn't even watching.

Why am I piloting this thing again when everyone hates me for it?

Hey, I need to talk to you about something in private, okay?

Yeah, what?

Come on, now.

Fine, whatever.

Right, so then you said...

Hey, class rep.

What's up?

We gotta go, you know, take a leak.

Really?

Oh, come on, you guys.

You should've done that earlier.

So what do you want?

I gotta see it.

I mean, just once before I die.

The shootout up there?

This is it.

The real deal.

And there's no telling when another one of those things will come along.

Kensuke, man.

I don't know.

But this might be the only chance we ever get.

Come on, please.

I just need you to help me with the lock.

All right.

You know, you can be pretty damn pushy sometimes.

Has anyone ever told you that?

Shinji, it's time to mobilize.

Are you ready?

Yeah.

Listen closely.

As you neutralize the enemy's AT field, fire a volley with the Gatling gun.

Do it just like we practiced and you'll be fine.

Right.

Move out!

Sweet!

Definitely makes all the trouble we're gonna get in worth it.

Here's the main event!

*Mario* Awesome.

Center enemy to rank and then pull the trigger.

Just like we practiced, alright Shinji?

Right.

And...

Check your fire!

You'll lose the target at the blast class!

He's already getting thrashed.

He'll be fine.

We're sending out the spare rifle.

Take it!

Shinji!

Shinji!

Wow.

Maybe he's still not seeing straight from that beating again.

You shut up!

Umbilical cable severed.

Ava has switched to internal power.

Operational time, 4 minutes 53 seconds.

It's coming this way!

Shinji, are you alright?

Shinji!

What's the damage?

None.

All combat systems operational.

What the?

Two of Shinji's classmates?

What are they doing out there?

Why the hell doesn't he fight it?

I'm thinking it might be because we're here.

He can't fight with us in the way.

Unit 1 has 3 minutes, 28 seconds operational time remaining.

Contact service melting.

Damage is 15%.

Shinji, let those two in the cockpit.

Once you have them secured, we will retreat and regroup.

Go, now!

You two, get in!

Quickly!

What the hell?

There's water in here?

A camera!

Contact service!

Protected film three melting!

Now hurry get out of there retreat Use extraction route number 34 New kid, I think they're telling you to run I mustn't run away Progressive knife equip Shinji, I gave you an order.

Retreat!

Shinji!

That stupid boy.

*Gunshot* *Screaming* *Screaming* *Screaming* Time remaining till complete unit failure!

Thirty seconds!

Twenty-eight!

Twenty-seven!

Twenty-six!

Twenty-five!

Twenty-four!

Twenty-three!

Twenty-two!

Ava, Unit 1 has come to a halt.

Target has completely disintegrated. *crying* Shinji, why did you ignore my orders up there?

I'm sorry.

I am your superior officer in charge of your missions.

Yeah.

Which means you have an obligation to follow my orders no matter what.

Do you understand?

Yeah.

Then make sure this never happens again.

Yeah.

Are you even listening to what I'm saying?

Yeah, I hear you.

Loud and clear.

But what does it matter anymore?

We won.

Look, I'll pilot it when you tell me to.

That's all you really won, isn't it?

We're done here.

Go home and get some rest.

I'll be there soon.

*Sigh* *Sigh* We have fun today.

We are just waiting for taking care of you.

Try a special service to improve your fitness.

We're dead.

Happy birthday.

So he's not coming home.

Damn that boy. - Icari?

Shinji Icari?

Hmm, so our newest student is already absent.

Well, I suppose we can forgive him just this once.

As for the rest of you, it's time for a pop quiz.

Oh, that's so exciting.

That's it.

I'm ready, all right.

You can take me back to Misato now.

So, do you feel better after your little walk?

Was it worth it?

Not really.

But I don't care anymore.

Not about any of it.

And even if I did, it's not like I have any choice.

I'm an Ava pilot now.

Nothing else.

That's what Dad called me here for, right?

That's what you all want.

So you win.

I'll pilot it.

If that's what makes everyone happy, then fine.

And what about you?

Is this what you want?

I know I'm not cut out for this.

I mean, is that really so hard for anyone to see?

But until Rey gets better, you and Dad and everyone expects me to That's enough!

This isn't about what other people want!

This is your choice!

You decide for yourself whether or not you're gonna pilot the Ava.

If you don't want to do it, leave.

You're free to go at any time you'd like.

It's up to you.

I had my doubts, but in the end, your son behaved exactly as you predicted he would.

Yes.

Next, I'll have him begin getting closer to Rey.

The plan will proceed unchanged.

Following the script we laid out for these children 14 years ago, the story of their lives...

It's almost cruel.

Just hurry up and do it.

Come on, what are you waiting for?

Just do it or I'm not gonna feel right.

Come on!

I know he means that too.

Go on, you'll be doing him a favor.

Okay, now we're even.

Sorry I decked you the other day.

Go!

Go!

Hurry!

Better hurry!

Do you have to see it though?

All right!

Go!

Take the shot!

Hey, come on, guys!

Don't worry!

Ew, the boys are down there gawking again!

Whoa!

They're so bad.

Look at Toji with those pervy little eyes.

Rei Ayanami, 14 years old.

She was our first qualified pilot, chosen in accordance with the Marduk report.

The first child, the designated pilot for the Evangelion prototype Unit Zero.

Beyond that, her history is a blank.

It's been completely erased from official records.

And my dad?

When she got hurt, he's the one who saved her?

Abnormality and activation system!

Irregularity detected in stage 3!

Signs of internal projection in central nerve elements.

Interference in main transmission!

Hull reversing!

We can't stop it!

Direct monitors disconnected.

Interference in main transmission.

Blood depth unstable!

It's being drawn toward the AVA!

Abort contact!

Emergency shutdown circuits 1 through 6!

This is not working!

The signal isn't getting through!

Unit Zero is out of control!

Abort the experiment.

Cut the main power.

Yes, sir.

Unit Zero has switched to auxiliary power. 35 seconds to complete system shutdown.

Automatic taping system still not responding.

Sir, it's dangerous.

Get back!

Emergency auto ejection activating!

Shut it down!

Special bagel I heard!

No, Ray!

Ten seconds, complete system shutdown!

Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one!

Unit Zero is now offline!

Ray, are you alright?

Ray!

I understand.

That doesn't really strike me as something Ikari would do.

His part in it has been expunged from the official report, but it definitely happened.

And even after all that, he still wants to take Unit Zero out of suspension.

Aren't we being a bit hasty?

The Angels have forced our hand.

We need every weapon in our arsenal that we can get.

That's true, but still.

Rey's reactivation tests have already been completed, and there are no problems with Unit Zero itself.

All that's left is to calibrate the neural connections and then she'll immediately be put back on active duty, huh?

Rey, she's always alone.

Why is that?

Ava unit one entering stage three cool down.

Page six.

Received with system shutdown checklist.

Pages one through three.

Copy all personal data from entry phone from LQR analysis.

*Sigh* I'm getting used to it.

Then things are settling in.

This isn't your first time living with a guy, as I recall.

Nah.

But this isn't anything like eight years ago.

It's not a romantic thing, for one.

I don't know about that.

It could be.

Shinji's only staying here because of you.

No.

I'd say it's mostly for his dad.

He's hoping his dad will finally notice him.

Maybe get to know him.

Have any kind of contact.

Just one little word of praise.

That's all it would take.

And then he'd know he's not alone.

So these issues with his father, I'm guessing you can relate?

I just don't get it.

How can Commander Ikari be so disinterested in his own son?

He has no problem talking to Rei.

It just doesn't seem fair.

But is it that unusual?

Powerful men are notoriously self-absorbed.

That still doesn't make it any easier to watch, you know?

At any rate, I think it's time I was getting back.

Always the good little workaholic, aren't you?

Oh, here.

As long as you're going home, take these.

Shinji's official security card and Rei's renewal.

I missed her earlier.

If you could, ask Shinji to give it to her tomorrow.

Yeah, sure.

Rei Ayanami.

Why does dad smile when he sees her?

Why won't he smile for me?

I don't know.

Anybody home?

It's Shinji.

Shinji Ikari.

Rei?

I'm coming in.

*Gasp* Does Ray wear glasses?

Ray, I was just...

I wasn't snooping.

I...

Ah!

Would you get off me?

I was...

What?

Wait, I...

But I...

I...

I was just...

I was...

I was asked to...

To...

What was it?

Oh, the card!

There's a new card!

They asked me to bring it!

So, uh...

So...

It's not like I meant to...

Ritsuko!

She forgot to give it to you.

Honest.

And no one answered when I rang the doorbell.

And the door was unlocked.

So, uh...

I...

Central dog bell is currently open.

Group 3 personnel are requested to use direct gate 4.

Like I was trying to say, they issued you a new one.

Ritsuko asked me to give it to you.

Sorry about earlier.

For what?

Hey, um, aren't you scared at all?

I mean about getting back in the Eva why I Heard you that hurt pretty bad during the last experiment, so I Was wondering if you know you were still fine with piloting Yes, I'm fine, but you don't know when it might go berserk again, right?

Aren't you worried?

What if it happens in the middle of a battle with an angel and we lose?

Tell me your commander Ikari son, aren't you?

Then why are you scared?

Don't you have faith in his work?

No, how could I?

I mean, how could anyone?

What's wrong?

Oh, my God. approaching so it does let's send unit one out to meet it AVA unit one prepare for launch switch into anti-air interstate equipment target in range now entering lake tashi airspace AVA unit one equipped and ready to launch let's move out I'm reading increased target energy levels.

Wait, it's charging up?

Oh, no!

Look out!

That's too much for him.

Lower the sink rate.

Deploy the blast shield.

Hey!

Abort!

Execute emergency recovery of AVA Unit 1!

We can't!

The catapult is melted!

It won't operate!

What about the AT field?

It's been raced to maximum levels.

It's just barely managing to maintain integrity.

That's it.

Scrap the mission.

Prioritize pilot safety.

Initiate clog ejection.

No.

Cancel that.

If we were to eject the pilot now, the Ava's AT field would vanish and the unit would be destroyed.

We'd be placing ourselves in a near hopeless situation.

Yes, but...

There's no other choice.

Force of all recovery of Unit 1!

Denonate explosive bolts!

*Dramatic music* Target has ceased attack.

Transfer unit 1 to emergency cage 99.

Medical team, stand by!

Top priority goes to cooling the LTL at times 5. - It's repeating a pulse, but it's fake. - Maximize the plug to its life support system.

Cardiac massage. - Yes, ma'am.

Vital stabilized. - Good, now force eject the plug. - In response, force eject sequence initially. - LCL emergency release.

Yes, ma'am. - LCL training. - Where's that medical team?

I'm sorry.

The target has started its attack from directly overhead.

It's drilling straight down to the geofront.

So this one's looking to hit us where we live.

It's coming right for Nerve headquarters.

Okay, people.

Analysis reports.

Give me something.

Based on earlier target data, we have surmised that the target automatically eliminates all hostiles that approach within a certain range. which means close-quarter combat with the Avas is out of the question.

What about its AT field?

It's up and running.

On top of that, it keeps its phase pattern constantly shifting.

That's why it changes shape.

It'll be extremely difficult to neutralize.

According to Magi's calculations, it is theoretically possible to penetrate the target's AT field using a delivery of aerial N-2 bombs.

However, a blast of the magnitude required would destroy NERF headquarters as well.

Yes, Magi-2 and Matsushiro came to the same conclusion.

And it seems the Japanese government and the UN are proposing attacks that involve Nerve Headquarters self-destructing.

That's ridiculous.

They obviously don't realize what's at stake here.

If this place goes, it's all over for everyone.

But ma'am, it may already be too late.

By our latest reports, the target's drill has penetrated armor level 2, with no signs of slowing down.

There are 22 completed armor belts between us and the surface.

At present rate, penetration of all remaining levels is expected to occur tomorrow morning at 6 minutes, 54 seconds past midnight.

Less than 10 hours, 15 minutes away.

Unit Zero hasn't been calibrated yet, so it's still not combat And the earlier damage to Unit One means it won't be fully operational for quite some time.

So things aren't looking good for us at the moment.

What do you mean?

We're completely out of options.

We could try sending up a white flag.

There's a thought.

But before we do that, there's one other little thing I want to look into.

Those secret SSDF research papers.

Intelligence still has them, right?

I've got to hand it to you.

You've concocted some crazy plans before.

But this one tops them all.

It's executable in nine hours.

And it gives us a fighting chance against the Angel.

Now, which part of that is crazy exactly?

Operation Yashima.

Let's see.

You're requisitioning electricity from all over Japan so that you can charge a high-power, self-propelled positron cannon, a top-secret prototype which you've somehow commandeered from the SSDF Research Institute.

It's incomplete, so to make up for its lack of a targeting system, you're going to use the AVA as a precision sniper.

Nothing crazy-sounding about that.

I'll tell you, the UN forces are one thing, but I'm amazed you managed to talk SSDF internal affairs into this.

Well, they owe me a few fakes.

Like they say, set a fox to catch a fox.

Please be advised, tonight from midnight until dawn, there will be a large-scale nationwide power outage.

We ask all citizens for their cooperation during this time.

Repeating.

Please be advised, tonight from midnight until dawn, there will be a large-scale nationwide power outage.

Okay, here goes.

Please be advised, tonight from midnight until dawn, there will be a large-scale nationwide power outing.

We ask all citizens for their cooperation during this time.

The Angels drill has just penetrated armor level seven.

How are things coming with the power system?

The power system will be supplied directly from the new Gotemba substation at two auxiliary locations.

We are currently laying superconductive supply cables towards lower Futago Mount.

Full transformer array and all lines are expected to be ready for power by 2250 hours tonight.

And what's the progress on that sniper mount?

Well, it's starting to come together.

Give me a few more hours and I'll have it ready for you.

AVA Unit 1, status.

Maintenance crews refitting Unit 1 with Type-G sniper equipment.

Estimated time to completion, two hours.

Understood.

Then I guess all that leaves is the pilot.

You think he's willing?

He may not want to get in again.

How do you propose we handle the matter of Unit 1's pilot?

We have yet to run a successful test on the dummy plugs.

We'll try to keep the current pilot in place until they're more practical for use.

Worst case, there's always brainwashing.

No, if it doesn't work out, we'll use Ray.

Have her pilot Unit 1?

We'd be taking an enormous risk.

We'll resort to whatever means are required.

If we're to succeed, there are eight more angels that must be defeated.

Only then will it all begin.

I don't like it, being a naval pilot.

It's expected that I always do well, so no one ever thanks me for it.

And if I fail, everyone hates me, unless I get killed.

So why am I even still here?

I only came because I thought something might change.

That something good might happen.

I didn't come here to feel miserable.

Is that really how you want to keep living your life?

Running away when things get hard?

My life.

Why am I alive?

I used to think being alive was pointless.

No one needs me.

Not Dad, not Misato.

If I'm not in the Ava, I'm not needed at all.

That's why I have no choice but to be a pilot.

That's why I have to stay here.

But when I pilot the Ava...

The same ceiling again.

This is all I get when I pilot the Ava.

Ray?

How long have you been here?

Listen, at zero hundred hours tomorrow, Operation Yashima is scheduled to begin.

Pilots Ikari and Ayanami will report to Terminal 2.

19.30 hours today.

20.00 hours.

The Evas, Unit 1 and Unit 0, will take position.

20.05, we launch.

20.30, arrive at Fortress 2, Futugo Mountain.

After that, stand by for further orders.

Tomorrow, when the date changes, the operation will commence.

Your meal.

No, thanks.

I'm not hungry.

We're leaving in 90 minutes.

They expect me to get back in that thing?

They do.

It's too much.

I don't ever want to be that scared again.

Not like that.

Or I can't even run away.

You're scared of the Eva?

fine stay in bed stay but I'll pilot unit one myself Ray wait goodbye *Many* Enemy drill has now penetrated through Armored Level 17.

Four hours and fifty-five minutes until we've reached Nerve Headquarters.

Aerial Line 3 now online in West Hakanay, Shinsen, and South Tonosan.

Roger that.

Begin system test.

Route all power directly to central hub.

Installment of 500,000 volt normal transformers on schedule.

No change to timetable.

Transformer array 28 is arrived five minutes late.

Coordinators, please work to get them connected quickly.

Container HQ3 is cleared for unloading.

Please confirm switch tests for superconductive ultra high voltage transformer arrays.

Roger.

Begin test zero one through five zero. operation validation starting with the first which just complete for all long-distance transmission system operating at full capacity so this is the prototype positron cannon it's a hasty construction job but the design is theoretically sound we'll be forcibly linking the zero-point control the unit one's type G equipment.

Well, we'll be counting on you.

Now, if only we could say the same of our pilot.

Let's just hope Misato can bring him around.

Here you are.

What are you doing?

You missed the rendezvous time.

Listen.

You made up your own mind to be a part of this.

Now you need to do your job like you're supposed to.

I'm just...

I'm scared, okay?

You all have it so easy.

You're always safe underground at headquarters, giving out orders.

I'm the only one in real danger.

You want to tell me how that's fair?

Come with me for a minute.

No.

Fifteen years ago, in the second impact, half the world's population was wiped out.

If we allow the angels to bring about the third impact now, the human race won't survive.

Not one single soul.

I already know all this.

I don't need to hear it again.

If an angel should ever manage to get past our defenses and make its way all the way down here to level triple E, this whole place is set to automatically self-destruct.

Even if it costs us our own lives to kill the angel, we will prevent the third impact from happening.

Every man and woman in this organization is prepared to pay that price.

What is that?

It can't be.

An Ava?

No.

What you're seeing is the origin of all life on this planet, as well as the key to its end.

The second angel, Lilith.

Lilith?

That's right.

And it's the trigger that will set off the third impact.

We have to protect Lilith.

That's what the Avas are for.

And piloting one is something only you can do.

In other words, we've entrusted the future of mankind and all life on Earth to you and the Ava.

But that's so much to ask.

I don't understand.

Why me?

There is no why.

That destiny happened to be yours, that's all.

However, I want you to understand that you're not the only one risking your life in this fight.

We are all in this together.

All right, I'll try.

I'll pilot the Eva.

Now then, you each have a specific role to perform in this operation.

Now, Shinji.

Yes?

You will be the gunner in Unit 1.

Right.

Rei, you'll be in charge of Defense in Unit 0.

Yes, ma'am.

This operation will require a high degree of precision.

There's no room for error.

That being the case, since Unit Zero hasn't been calibrated, Unit One gives us a greater advantage, even in its damaged state.

Listen to me, Shinji.

Positrons are affected by the Earth's rotation, magnetic field, and gravity, so they won't travel in a straight line.

Don't forget to compensate for those factors.

When you fire, penetrate the core and only the core.

But how will I know where it is?

What if I miss it?

Don't worry.

Within the target, there's an object that materializes only while it's in combat mode.

We've surmised that that is the core.

Once you're in position, we'll enter all the specifics of the target location and fire guidance solution from our end.

You just do things by the book and hold the trigger when the center reticle lines up.

As long as you do your part, the machines will do the rest.

I will warn you, there is only one terminal convergence point for the power.

Therefore, Unit 1 cannot move once it's in firing position.

Meaning I can't run away?

Correct.

Then if I miss and the Angel fires back...

No.

Don't concern yourself with what-ifs right now.

Concentrate on destroying your target in a single shot.

Because if I miss, we're screwed.

Is that it?

So then.

I just have to protect Unit 1, is that right?

Correct.

I understand.

It's time.

You two get changed.

Right.

You know...

There's a chance we could both die on this mission.

You're wrong.

You won't die.

Because I will protect you.

But maybe I'm not worth protecting.

It's a message left with the PR department at headquarters.

Huh.

Um, this is Toji.

Hey, new kid.

I mean, hey, Shinji.

We're counting on you, man.

You can do it.

Hey, Kinsuke here.

Shinji, hang in there, okay?

The End Yes, a bond.

With my dad?

With everyone.

You know, you're stronger than I am.

That's because I have nothing else.

It's time.

We should go.

Goodbye.

Counting down to midnight.

All units are in position.

Final seconds before operation launch.

Here we go.

Shinji, look.

Whatever happens out there, I'm grateful to you just for trying.

Thank you.

Commence Operation Yashima.

Prepare to fire the positron cannon.

Initiate stage one connections.

Roger that.

All regions switching to primary and secondary substation systems.

Throwing all switches.

Initiate connections.

Switches activated.

Power generator facilities operating at full capacity.

0.7 to max output limit.

No problems in the power supply system.

Frequency transducer capacity expanded to 65 million kilowatts.

All inverters operating normally.

Main one breaker system now activating in...

Districts 1 through 803.

All transmission lines open.

Voltage stable.

System frequency holding at 50 hertz.

Stage 2 connections.

Go!

New Gotama substation coming online.

New Susanoo substation coming online.

New Yoko-Wata auxiliary substation also coming online.

Voltage function and power range.

Stage 3 connections.

Roger.

Diverting all power to the Butago-Mountain substation.

Power transmission maintaining maximum voltage.

All cooling systems operating at maximum output.

Superconductive transformer coming online.

Indicator confirmed.

No anomalies detected. - Tron cannon releasing primary safety. - Stage three connections normal. - Then we're ready.

Send a message to Fortress 4 and 5.

Commence operation is scheduled.

Order all observation planks to pull out. - The L3 was vaporized. - It'll notice us.

Don't give it any time.

Next phone. - Battery two is hit. - VLS array eight vaporized. - Ground attack system four.

Commencing attack. - Missile position six, wipe out. - VLS array five, system down. - Labor array firing third wave. - VLS array five vaporized.

Commence attack!

Positron accelerator charging, plus one tera.

Positron cannon cycling up!

Free firing, check is clear!

All lines remain over and ready.

Operational order conversion rate point 019% Automatical transmission breakdown.

Conversion capacity increased to 160.

Circuit set two, remaining circuits operating.

State core connections normalized.

Final cannon safeties, release!

Engaging cannon!

*BOOM* Commencing funnel entry of firing solution.

Compensation for Earth rotation and gravity plus.0009.

Fire control system on a truck to the 7.

Positron cannon magnetic acceleration.

Positron's currently accelerating.

0.2 to critical.

All full units maintaining...

Stage 5, activate vital connections.

All power to ultra high voltage discharge system.

Discharge clock 1 through 9.

Ready.

Final adjustments to Positron Accelerator.

I don't have Ray's determination.

I'm not sure I have any qualities that would make me a good EVA pilot.

So why?

All I did was get it to move, and now I'm protecting mankind?

It's such a huge thing.

I can't even get my mind around it.

Why me?

13, 12, 11, 10.

Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one.

Now fire!

Did we get it?

We missed it! - But how?

Our timing was perfect. - It's charging!

Energy ratings rising! - Everyone, brace for direct impact!

*Squad* How's the power system?

Still online.

Looks like it's already starting to recharge.

And the positron cannon?

Minor damage.

It appears to be mostly superficial, but I'm not sure if we'll get another shot out of it.

No time to wait.

We'll just have to try it.

Shinji, are you alright?

Hurry!

Get Unit 1 back into firing position!

Now!

Shinji!

Hey!

Effective immediately.

The Unit 1 pilot is relief of duty.

Order the Unit 0 pilot to take over the gunner position.

Ikari, are you...

You heard me.

He's clearly useless.

Pull him out.

No, Commander, wait!

He could have run away, but he got in the Ava.

As long as he still chooses to fight, we should trust him to see this through.

Shinji, hang in there, okay?

We're counting on you, man.

I'm asking you to have faith in your own son.

Have faith with me that he is the Unit 1 pilot.

I'll leave it to you.

Do as you see fit.

Thank you, Commander.

Shinji.

I'm here.

One more time.

With all the power of Japan behind you.

All of our hopes.

Our future.

Our lives.

Along with the lives of every creature on this planet.

It's all in your hands now.

Do your best.

Right.

Barrel, lock in position.

Unit 1 has discarded Type G equipment.

Switching all final firing system controls to manual.

Enemy control, range 1 -0, about 10 quarters.

Hurry up with the second round!

Fuse exchanged.

Barrel cool down complete.

Power transmission...

Positron cannon magnetic acceleration being stated.

Cannon cycling up.

Pleasure approaching maximum tolerances.

New firing solution has been entered.

All further error compensation will be left to the pilot's manual controls.

Aggression zero point to speed up warning.

Target's energy levels are on the rise!

What?

No!

Shit!

Shit!

Come on!

Hurry, hurry!

Go on, hurry!

I'm sorry!

Yes, you did it!

*gunshot* Ray!

Ray!

Ray!

I'm sorry.

Ah!

Ray!

Ray!

Are you alright?

Ray!

You have nothing, really?

You were just gonna leave me on that?

And that whole dramatic goodbye thing?

Don't do that again, okay?

Why are you crying?

I'm sorry.

I guess I don't know what to do in situations like this.

You could start by smiling.

I'm sorry.

I already know.

If you're waking me, the child has appeared.

And we've entered the summation stage, right?

Correct.

The apocrypha of the Dead Sea Scrolls has been passed into the Book of Law.

The time with the Covenant is close at hand.

The third one again, huh?

You haven't changed.

I'm looking forward to seeing you, Shinji Ikari.

I don't know.

If you want to make a mistake, I don't know yet, I'm sorry I've done a lot of things I've done a lot of things I've done a little bit I don't need to know what I'm doing If you're not a good person, I'm fine But I don't care if I'm not a bad person I'll see you next time.

Killer temple world Killer temple boy Killer temple world Killer temple boy Ava Unit 5 is mobilized.

Ava Unit 2 and its pilot are assigned.

EVA Unit 4 ceases to exist.

EVA Unit 3 undergoes a forced activation experiment.

And EVA Unit 6 and its pilot come flying from the moon.

As Shinji and Kari's story gradually falls apart, how will all of these pieces come together?

Coming soon, Evangelion 2.

You cannot advance.

And don't worry, there'll be plenty more fan service on the way, too.