Hi, my name is Amanda Wyn Lee.

I wrote the script, I directed and produced the Evangelion movies, and this is the commentary.

Yay!

Hi, I'm Jason Lee.

I was co-producer on the Evangelion movies, and also I play the voice of Aoba.

And I'm Taliesin Jaffe.

I'm a voice actor, General Eva Monkey, and color commentary for this commentary. - Oh yes, and I also played Ray and Yui.

I forgot about that part. - They don't wanna know about that. - They don't care about that. - Not at all. - No one cares about that.

And this is the section of 1001 Logos. - Yeah, apparently everybody but the Chrysler Corporation was involved in the logo process here.

This is literally like two minutes of logos. - It took a lot to get this film going.

Apparently a lot of people wanted to be involved with it. - Wow, we, on our end, We know that this film takes a lot.

All right, let me just, a little disclaimer ahead of time here.

If there's a little levity on this commentary track, please forgive us, but this movie was so intense and serious, we thought it was definitely necessary.

So Taliesin will be providing serious stuff, plenty of that for all of us, but you'll learn a lot and you'll learn a bit about the dub process that we did.

Okay, I am especially proud of this opening scene because the dialogue was so hard to translate.

We had three different translators working on this one scene until we got it line for line.

The problem is there's three different conversations that are overlapping, and so it's just difficult to pick out who is saying what.

But I was really proud of this.

I thought we pretty much nailed this one.

Yeah, if you check out the subtitle also, you'll find that the three conversations going on right now, there's this, there's a id ego, super ego thing going on.

We have a pleasure center over on the left complaining about the food and about the smoking.

We've got the scientists trying to figure everything out.

And we have Gendo as the super ego just laughing at everybody else trying to deal with this.

Wow, that's pretty deep.

That is really deep, Taliesin.

We'll have more of that.

I told you, Towson, we'll be the deep part of the commentary, and I will be the superficial part, and Amanda will be the...

Bubbly part.

Bubbly, nuts and bolts part of the whole deal.

But yeah, the opening sequence, we literally had several translators working on it, and even they were going, there's too much stuff going on, so we put them through their paces as well.

But I think we were very all happy the way it came out.

I'm hoping English audiences are going to get a lot more out of this than even the Japanese audiences did.

You can really pick out a lot more.

Well, how the second impact just happened, and half the world dies now.

I hate it when that happens.

Now, it was interesting, with the sound design for this, our basic motto was, if you don't feel the rumble in your rear end, then it doesn't count as an explosion.

So, Sean did an amazing job with the 5.1 surround mix.

Sean being the sound mixer.

Sound god.

On the 5.1 mix, which I think we're also proud of the 5.1 mix.

Especially that opening sequence, you should have heard it coming from all kinds of places.

So, you could thank Sean for just the mastery of that.

If you didn't get that, you have to buy more expensive equipment right now.

Exactly.

Oh, before you continue watching, go buy a 5.1.

If you do not have it, yes.

We won't come to your house, certainly not.

No.

This is Alison Keith and Aaron Crone, both of whom I absolutely love and adore.

Alison Keith is a really, really good friend of mine.

She was actually in our wedding.

Yes, she was.

Wonderful actress.

She flew in from New York just to reprise the role of Miss Tato.

Did an amazing job.

Do you want to talk about the bi-coastal, or it was bi-coastal, Gulf Coast and West Coast difficulties of doing this?

Getting all the actors in one place was very, very difficult.

We actually recorded in three different studios.

Oh, just a quick note, this scene was actually in the original series, but it was cut from the television broadcast.

I don't have any stupid little kids.

My heart belongs to you, Kaji.

Mama!

Mama!

They chose me!

I'm an elite pilot now!

I'm the best in the whole world!

There's a director's cut of the television series wandering around of Part 2.

And Asuka basically throws herself at Kaji, undoes her blouse, says "Take me, take me, you wild, passionate thing."

And he says, "No!"

He's so cool.

I want to be him when I grow up.

And this is the wonderful Tiffany Grant... ...doing one of the most traumatizing scenes known to anime.

It's wonderful we introduce her at the hanging scene.

I need you to concentrate.

I'm trying to.

There is Sue Uluas Ritsko reprising her role.

What do you think it means, ma'am?

That is Amy Seeley doing the role of Ibuki.

Originally, Kendra Spencer did the role.

She was not available and basically deferred and said, you know what, find somebody that could do this justice, and I think we did.

Absolutely.

Amy Seeley is amazing.

Oh, this is Tristan McAvery does Gendo.

Wonderful, wonderful job with Gendo.

And Lauren Chapman was Dr.

Akagi.

And of course, Spike Spencer.

And we haven't heard from Ray yet, have we?

No?

Nope.

She comes a little longer.

The effort, though, getting all these actors and studios together for the...

Basically, we did part of In Texas to try to get as much of the original cast as we could.

And a lot of them still live in Texas, where ADV did the original series.

And then a lot of the actors lived in Los Angeles, so we did all the mixing and sound and all that stuff as well.

It was a bi-coastal production.

It was a bi-coastal production.

And I don't think we'll ever do it again, but it was...

It was a wonderful learning experience.

Oh, there went Ray.

She went...

Her first gasps. and Shinji's immortal words here, which will run through the rest of the series.

Ready?

Here it goes.

Do it, do it, do it.

I must have run away.

I must have run away.

I must have run away.

Yay!

A lot of kanji in the-- Boy, all over the place in this and-- Especially in death.

In death.

Now, this actually-- Aaron Crone also did the voice of Kwaru for this brilliant job I think personally I'll second that one there the original actor Kyle Sturdivant was unavailable we had a hard time finding some of these guys they just kind of disappeared off the face of the earth but Aaron I mean you would he just did a wonderful job if not mimicking taking this to a level I mean the original guy did a wonderful job but Aaron just I mean I just felt this just, Kwaru's humanity just pour through his performance in this.

It was pretty amazing.

She really did a brilliant job.

And we set up for the frame of this entire film, which is this practice at the school with all of our children, the first children, the second children, a third child.

We're in English now.

That's right.

In the original Japanese, they call it the first children instead of the first child. second children, third children.

So for those of you who wanted us to remain absolutely hardcore faithful to the original Japanese, I'm sorry, but that just would have sounded stupid.

Yeah, most WordPerfect spell checks are intelligent enough to change this.

You kind of got to go with WordPerfect occasionally.

What was the artistry of moving the, like, the Evangelion was backwards.

Was that just kind of a funky, artsy thing?

I think it's the Evangelion was backwards for death and then for rebirth.

Because we are kind of re-seeing...

You want a moment of fun here?

There's a definite Christ metaphor for anybody who has watched the show... ...and we have Shinji kind of stuck in here.

And crucifixion, it's not just a Catholic thing.

It goes through various, various religions.

And it's all about going into death, looking at death and coming out of it again... ...and seeing where you come from afterwards.

That's really what's happening here.

And this is really what is going on on that level of this film.

So it's about going into something and coming out of it again.

It's a trial.

That's cool.

Well, thank you.

Removing primary restraints.

Removing secondary restraints.

Roger.

Now we go into our first Eva angel attack.

Eva, launch!

Oh, it was funny.

The original series that they sent us, the sounds of the original series, did not have any of the Eva monster noises.

So, Taliesin and Jason actually got into the studio and made all the other noises.

As well as the angels.

As well as the angels.

Except for one specific one.

We'll see later.

We'll get to that one now.

So, now this first one is you, isn't it, Taliesin?

Yes, I am Satyel, the angel of water.

And angel of Thursdays, which is odd, because I can never quite get the hang of Thursdays.

We're having trouble maintaining activation!

This kind of cerebrum feel to it with the bird face and kind of the shape of a lot of the original drawings of the six wings and strange multiple heads of angels that they had before they got cute and fluffy.

Was this you, Taliesin, or was it?

I can't remember.

No, that one was Taliesin.

I guess that one was me still.

We switched off a bit.

Our voice would give out and somebody else would come in to take its place.

Yeah, it was quite interesting doing all the ava noises.

Then we would pitch them, of course.

And then we put this effect on it called grumpy flutter, which I just loved.

Please compare between the Japanese and the English rule.

We want you to hear what we did for this.

Personally, I'm really proud of what we did.

I thought, see, now that was a Jason growl.

That one I recognize.

I'm not capable of that.

And I don't know if you went into depth about it, but we just didn't have the...

A lot of times, say, the Ava noises would be on the M&E track, music and effects track and this happened to be on the dialogue track of the Japanese which we couldn't separate for the 5.1 to clean sound so that's why we recreated it.

It wasn't an artistic choice on our part, it was a necessity that we had to do it.

Yes, which we did just, we managed to pull that together which it was kind of fun and we got creative with some of the stranger angels.

He did actually, by the way, just pierce the soul of that angel with a rib.

I don't know what that means.

Is that some sort of, yeah, something Adam-esque.

There might be something there.

I'm not sure.

There could be.

Maybe he just likes spare ribs.

Angels taste like chicken.

Angels taste like chicken.

Is that true?

Very true.

Fabulous.

And what you'll find, oddly enough, is Masato's apartment is an exact replica of Amanda.

We have this exact same apartment.

It's very strange.

Other than the Krispy Kreme thing, yeah, it's just down there.

And she doesn't have a Space Invaders machine.

And if you caught, Miss Alda did just move in also, if you caught that too.

She moved in yesterday, I think she says.

That's why it looks exactly like our apartment at this point.

Fantastic.

Wish I could destroy apartment that quickly.

Now this is a flashback, and we actually have Mike Ross doing the voice of Hugheski.

We were unable to find Gil Lundy.

He's one of those actors that just disappeared off the face of the earth.

But once again, Mike Ross stepped up to the role.

He studied it so thoroughly before he even got in the studio that I think he did a really wonderful job.

I was very impressed.

This next sequence, this kind of flashback, is kind of one of my favorites because Masato gets a little tipsy and Allison's a lot of fun.

It comes up in a couple of minutes here.

We laughed quite a bit doing the mix on this because there's so many voices layered, especially in this part.

Some of the most fun lines we buried, especially when they show up in the bar here in a second.

This was an interesting thing because even though these are scenes from the original production, this being a manga production, we had to recreate every single bit of dialogue.

So this exchange with Shinji, even though this is layered down, we had to totally redo this again.

Which, fan service, which is...

She has one of those heart-shaped tinies.

Yes.

You guys like that kind of thing, huh?

I'm not allowed to talk about being attracted to any cartoon.

My therapist has advised me to stop anything like that.

And on that note...

Yes, no...

So now this is Spike Spencer, who actually in real life is one of the most hyper, funniest, you know, just sweetest guys I know.

So it's funny.

I hope that Manka gets to put the outtakes on the DVDs, but Spike would just have so much fun in the studio that we just loved listening to him and just loved playing with him.

Spike is a very, very talented actor.

The outtakes, especially after working on a show like this after a couple weeks, a couple months...

We get pretty punchy.

You need to laugh at something after a while.

Because it's just...

Life gets very gray.

Life gets very gray.

Once again, excuse our levity, but we really...

I mean, if we did not act like this in the studio when we were making this, it would have been a...

We would have all thrown ourselves in front of a bus or opened a vein or something comparable.

We would have shaved our body.

There's Martin, get away!

This is Shamahel, by the way, Angel of the Sun.

The hierarchy of angels is pretty mixed in Catholicism.

They can't really...

No one can really decide how many there are, what they do.

They don't even know who the archangels are.

There's supposed to be seven of them, but there's like 30 that have the title.

That one just happens to look like a giant sea anemone, something that I would eat if I were in Japan.

Well, no, even if it were 40-story style.

One of the stranger of the angel designs.

I never quite could trace it to anything.

There's one that I always think, I always call it the Picasso painting, the one that was the big eyeball that drips acid.

I love the big eyeball that drips acid.

That's so wonderful.

I call it the Picasso angel.

We don't get much of it in this film.

I think there's like a brief two-second, two-frame flash or something.

Yeah, there's 17, 15 angels in all, and we will be making little notes about all of them at some point in this audio commentary.

A lot of them come from, those images do come from places, and a lot of them are just...

Probably do, but I'm only one man.

There's only so much I can do in 48 hours' notice.

So here's Shinji Stalking.

We're about to hear Kurt Stoll.

We love Kurt Stoll.

We love Kurt Stoll.

You've heard him in primarily many ADV productions, but he has this wonderful young fighter pilot-type voice that we just love, Kurt Stoll, and we're glad we could bring him back to recreate this role.

He's just got this, I don't know, just this youth and vibrancy to his voice.

He's like, but I can play older roles.

We're like, yes, Kurt, we know, but we love you in these Luke Skywalker-type roles.

Totally.

They were cooking rice the old-fashioned way, by the way.

That little canister, that's the Japanese outdoor.

That's the camp cooking.

That's camp cooking.

Potatoes and tinfoil.

Have a Japanese Coleman stove.

More or less.

Oh, God.

Okay, nerve.

There's something to talk about.

The fig leaf is obvious to anybody.

God's in his heavens, all's right with the world is from Pippa Passes by Robert Browning, a 19th century English poet.

Read it yourself, figure out what it means.

I'm not giving anybody anything on that.

I'm trying to get you to buy books.

I'm not letting you just purge mine here.

It's a very, very fluffy poem about springtime and birds.

It's funny that they took such a fluffy poem and made it symbolize this It's a thing of such evil.

Dark, powerful, heinous force.

Of course, if you're leaving, we'll have to leave.

Now this is Brett Weaver.

He was one of the three original Tojis.

He was kind of like Lionel from the Jeffersons.

He was the third Lionel, or third Toji.

And we wish we had more for him to do, but Toji in the flashbacks, We, uh, not too much, but he did a great job once again.

Shinji, you mustn't run away.

You breed them out in a farm on Fresno, right?

The toji farm, huh?

Yeah, tojis are bred often for sports.

Tojis and rays.

Tojis and rays.

Oh, my?

Oh, my.

Some of the oddness.

It's awesome!

The buildings are growing!

Just like the little man in my pants.

Sorry.

I was wondering how long it went before we went that direction.

Pay no attention to the phallic metaphor of Man's Hubris here.

Titanic will not sink, Tokyo 3 will not fall.

Oddly enough, they do capture the look of Tokyo pretty well.

What I would imagine Tokyo would look like if they had to start over again.

The trains and the...

Except there weren't a million people scrunched on the train together.

And they didn't have the guy doing the Marlon Brando voice on the train.

Often on the Tokyo subways, not speaking Japanese well at all, we don't know what the guy's saying as he's announcing the stops, but every Tokyo subway train driver sounds like Marlon Brando for some reason, and we're not quite sure why.

This is a coveted job in Japan, no less.

People want to be train drivers, and then they just sound so sad.

We believe that mental illness is lost.

Calling Shinjuku next time.

Causing a strain on the third child's health.

He was given four days leave.

His status has returned to normal.

Enjoy this.

This is a shiny, happy Shinji.

This is the last time you'll ever see it again.

I'm home.

Welcome home.

And now we move on to our next character.

Yay!

This is the inimitable Tiffany Grant, reprising her role as Asuka.

The feisty redhead.

All you have to do is play arpeggios.

Also known as the archetypal ex-girlfriend.

Many fans at the convention say that all the girls they go to school with remind them of Asuka.

Okay, wait, I just have to tell you guys that thing where Pen Pen was snoring, I did that.

Amanda did do the...

Is that quite a voice or what would you call that?

No, I call that a voice.

I make my living off of animal voices.

That's real work right there.

So that's what a penguin sounds like when it's snoring.

Oh, this is when Shinji tries to get some.

I love the way his eyes bug out.

Her tits are bigger there.

They're actually...

I was just going to say, her breasts deflate as the series goes on.

And obviously this is the metaphor.

His dat tape is out of control.

It's going fast.

It's racing.

And then we come to the...

You know, I...

That teenage first kiss is such a nightmare.

Oh, God.

Oh, yeah.

My teenage first kiss, I got mono.

I'm totally serious.

I was sick with mono for like two years.

Wow, you beat Shinji there.

Her worst first teenage kiss. call me mama, so that's...

What is the significance of the hick music here, the kind of the hillbilly...

It's their way of having fun.

Yeah, a lot of this music, at least at the beginning of the series, really harkened back to the classic animes of 1970s, the Gundam stuff, and there was a real feel of a typical anime giant robot show, and it just slowly breaks down episode by episode into this...

This is like the Country Bear Jamboree soundtrack playing right here for some reason, and we'll call it Oscar's lament from now on.

I think that the music budget was really limited too because these same pieces of music can get used over and over and over and over again.

I think we've got the done, done, done, done background.

We've got the one piece of classical music they optioned for much of the...

Well, there's lots of...

There's three classical pieces.

The Ode to Joy.

The Ode to Joy, Canon, Pocabell's Canon, and Hallelujah.

Hallelujah of course.

I just have to tell you guys, I love Spike Spencer so much, he could not say Paco Bell's Canon.

Paco Bell.

And so...

Taco Bell's Canon.

Taco Bell's Canon.

So he said it like, we did that tech like 15 times, and sweet, sweet boy, but just somehow it just kept catching in his throat, or just not quite coming out of his mouth.

These movie soundtracks are really worthwhile picking up if you're a classical music fan, and Canon, despite being associated with Alcoholics Anonymous and forever because of that.

It's a great piece of music, even though everyone plays it way too slow.

It's actually supposed to be a much faster version.

Yeah, actually, when we would turn on the ending credits to double speed, I would always watch it double speed because that's the actual tempo.

Really?

No one plays it that way.

Wait, why is that associated with Alcoholics Anonymous?

Because it was their theme song through most of the 80s.

Oh, was it?

Yeah, I lost my wife, my job.

What a waste.

Yeah.

What a beautiful song.

I mean, not that, oh, wow.

God, now I'm going to get angry letters.

No, I mean, Alcoholics Anonymous is a fabulous association, but it's such a great song to have to...

If you don't stop, we're going to have to stop tape.

I know.

Okay, I'm done.

We'll talk quickly about this whale of an angel that we have coming down here.

This is, oh, yes, this is our next angel, the angel of fish, Skagiel, appropriately.

Angel of fish.

I suppose fish named an angel. kind of whale-like more interesting in the fact that it's our first introduction to the brand of butt-kicking that is Asuka who also has a very interesting Eva, she has the production model Eva which if you're up on your Babylonian mythology, which I know all of you are which I'm obviously not because I'm checking my notes right now is very closely associated with Corazon and Marduk who again you'll have to look up as an interesting Babylonian god.

Four eyes.

Marduk, four eyes, four ears and two mouths.

Son of Ishtar.

It's kind of the Babylonian equivalent of the Christ birth.

He was the Jesus son.

Eventually of course becoming a demon in Christian folklore.

It was a four-eyed...

Well that's what happens when your religion goes out of style.

That's the unfortunate thing.

So that's interesting, though, that they fashioned one of the Evas after that, and then they also referred to the Marduk report.

Yeah, the Marduk report, which has some interesting stuff going on there.

That was the big dog, right?

Yeah, that was Marmaduke.

That was Marmaduke.

I almost said Marmalade.

That's my fault.

I'm sorry.

Another big red dog associated with Babylonian mythology.

Hello.

Good morning, Shinji.

Once again, we have the...

The Asuka's lament.

Picking and grinning.

Somebody in Japan, I was in Japan when this film came out, and somebody was talking to me about the relationship between Asuka and Shinji and how it related to, of all things, the wall, the destruction of Jericho, Joshua and Jericho.

I have absolutely no idea what that means, but if you figure it out, please find me at a convention, because this man did not speak very good English and was attempting to explain this to me.

It's something worth taking a look at, though, because he felt very strongly about it, and he had a good book collection.

Now, do you think that they portray Asuka as coming from this kind of land that's not as sophisticated as they come from?

Anywhere but Japan?

Definitely.

I didn't know if the music was...

It's the rest of the world there.

I love this animation here where Asuka gets really mad, and that's my favorite...

I love the fact that Shinji face plants right into the middle of the mat.

That just cracks me up.

Not only that, but I don't know if everyone notices that Asuka's actually the one that messed up, and then Shinji messes up.

But she blames it on him.

This is them preparing for the fight with Israfel, twin angels of poetry and music, Ko and Otsu, which I've never quite been able to find anywhere.

It's something Japanese.

Little yin-yang angel you don't really get to see much in this... in this encapsulated version.

This non-linear flashback that we're going through.

So with the hanging doll that we just saw, that portrays the death of her youth, you think, maybe?

Or her innocence?

Um, there's...

The death of the popularity of Cabbage Patch Kids.

Somewhere Raggedy Andy is very upset.

And a bachelor again.

He's going, why?

Why?

Yeah, Asuka is definitely the most, probably the most scarred of the kids, just because she doesn't talk about it nearly as much.

This is obviously the long elevator sequence that...

The sequence from...

No expense was spared in the making of this film.

This sequence, oh yeah.

Wait, wait, she's going to twitch.

Any minute now, she twitches and then shifts.

Unless she already did it.

You know, they could have played Girl from Impanima, at least at this point.

Just to kind of...

See, there it was.

She twitched.

This is a slow burn.

This is like a minute and 45 seconds of just two chicks in an elevator.

It's Anno and Oshia, the two Japanese animation directors who just feel that you can't stare at a puppy dog for too long in any film.

Oh, look, there's a broken statue.

I think we have to take 25, 30 seconds at least to absorb that.

Oh, there she spoke.

Okay.

And we break our tension with our two characters.

That's a great haircut. phrase.

The baby Thurman?

Yeah.

A friend who got her hair cut like that once.

And so here's Asuka having a little hissy fit.

Yeah.

Poor Asuka.

They go into a bit of her parents and the neglect and her desperate need to show off.

The doll, of course, was her doll.

Well, that was the doll that the mother believed after the mother...

After the first contact experiment with Unit 2, the mother went insane and believed that the doll was actually her daughter and believed that Asuka was this strange, weird girl.

So she would talk and coo to this doll.

And then when she hung herself, she also hung the doll.

Like taking her baby with her.

And they let this girl pilot them, Eva.

I know.

This is a fun sequence with Kurt and Brett doing Toji and...

Oh, come on.

We saw you looking.

It's good.

Got Ray's mammaries.

Ray's silky thighs.

Kurt Cass.

I love...

Kurt stole Foley.

Naughty bits.

That's just funny.

It's just awesome.

Then just what were you looking at?

Yeah, come on.

Teenage boys.

I was just wondering why she's always...

And then we have a little Unit Zero action.

Pre-blue Unit Zero.

It changes colors.

They decided that the yellow was in bad taste.

Well, that's when they rebuilt it.

They decided yellow was way out.

It was clashing with their hair.

So last year.

Well, I think they had found a spare part, and, you know, it was out of a junkyard or something, so the colors didn't match, so they kind of had to make it.

It was clashing with the S2 engine.

Yeah, exactly.

It looked too ghetto just to leave it.

Yeah, they took it to Earl Scheib, and, you know, he did a good job, I thought.

And now we get into everybody's favorite clone, and everybody's favorite clone, and everybody's favorite clone.

Oh, in my apartment.

Out of my apartment.

Rey, Rey, Rey.

Do you have anything to say about Rey?

This is probably my favorite scene because it's so wrong.

So, so, so wrong.

Shinji cops a feel on his mom.

That's just, that's not nice.

But we don't really know that at the point that this scene takes place in the series, so it's not as wrong on the first watch as it is in retrospect.

I think it rates slightly higher than the Skywalker Leia kiss, as that kind of ew that later after thought, oh.

Yeah.

That, ooh, didn't they suck face?

Isn't that just evil?

So we have our first strains of edifice issues in this... ...strange, dark, dark world that they're creating.

Oh, oh.

And they find a way to get all the lingerie in the scene as well, which is great.

You can never have too many panties in one scene.

I like the bra precariously balanced on his buttock.

On his pointy buttock.

Never before has so much underwear been in one anime.

And that says, in one shot, that says a lot.

We see the few of Ray's possessions.

Other than a massive collection of underwear, she owns one pair of glasses that she can't wear, a cup of water, and some bloodied bandages, and 50 pieces of underwear.

We know what her priorities are.

Well, in the director's cut, you do see a different angle where you see her whole Beanie Baby collection on the other wall, which I thought would have added a level of humanity that we missed.

And her I love Sean Cassidy poster.

Yeah, it was...

Which is why you need an R2 DVD player.

That's right.

This is all that you miss.

Well, I was asked to, you know...

That's okay.

No one's listening to us right now.

They're just trying to see if they can see Ray.

It's naughty bits.

Random Ray tidbits.

When we first saw the show, me and kind of my Scooby gang with the big scary books, we were thinking Ray was kind of a symbol for the angelic choir, but then this film happened and changed our whole theory on what was going on with her because there's just so many of her.

And we have baby Ray, we have teenage Ray, and then we have our third and final Ray.

Then there's the Uber Ray in the end.

There's Uber Ray later.

Yeah, no triple goddess metaphor there.

I'm not even going to go into that.

You can do that on your own.

Is that like a father, son, Holy Spirit thing, but with boobs?

Yeah, well, you know.

I'm so going to get hate mail.

No, of course not.

Find somebody in an all-natural cotton shirt and ask them.

They'll fill you in.

I'm going to share in your head now.

Wow.

Yeah.

This was interesting.

This was a scene that they took from the original series.

But the animation is different, so I don't know if this was an alternate take of the scene or if they couldn't find the original animation and just decided to redo it.

Well, they did reanimate a lot of little things.

A lot with Rey, actually.

If you notice in the very opening of this film, when Rey's on the ground, the very first thing with the Eva shaking and the first angel attack with Shinji.

There's one shot that's very well animated of her heaving.

She's doing this kind of heave.

That's new animation.

And also the shot of her when he rescues her from the pod and amended his brand new animation for this film.

Oh, really?

Yeah, it's like seven or eight seconds worth of all new animation.

I thought it was the same.

I mean, it looked like the same.

A little cleaner.

A little cleaner.

Nice.

Very nice.

It's odd, man.

I don't want to.

I don't want to go through it again.

This is one of these scenes where Spike is a very, very active person And the fact that this character Shinji was so passive would get to him sometimes So we'd have to make sure that it didn't sound like he was whining too much Lip flap's impeccable, though Well, thank you Down to the millisecond Oh, dear This is when Rey gets mad No, Rey doesn't look mad Ever goes insane It looks like the Eva is going for somebody, and it's a worthwhile debate to say, is it Ritsuko or is it Gendo that it was first punching at?

Who was it angry at?

We don't know.

I don't know.

I don't know either.

There's a lot of thought to that.

There has to be some personality in that Eva.

There's a couple different good ideas on who it could be.

Yeah.

Who do we have?

It's a pot.

I love this conversation.

This bit of dialogue.

I don't know why.

I mean, it's so... ...opaque.

For some reason, I've always thought it was a beautiful exchange.

I think it defines their relationship.

It's this really intimate relationship held at arm's length, basically.

And they just don't know how to talk to each other even though they want to. and we find because he's talking to his mother, but not in a mother-son relationship.

So it's such an odd dynamic, I think.

She doesn't really know.

She doesn't have those type of feelings towards...

It's just a strange dynamic, and I think it's always a neat exchange between the two.

She's definitely not emotionally mature enough yet to really figure out what's going on between her and him there.

And it's also added to the fact that the writer of this film is a master of the uncomfortable male-female dynamic.

Practically the world's foremost expert on the subject.

Just for a fun point there, they had just defeated Ramiel, Angel of Thunder, that big crystal that hums a jaunty tune as it drills into Tokyo 3.

The crystalline beings were also a prominent description of angels in earlier apocryphal texts.

The stuff that got cut before we got to read it.

Interesting.

Was that just stuff that ended up with the King James or just in general?

Well, there's two sets.

There's the Apocrypha and then there's stuff that was never part of the Bible, like the Pseudo-Apocrypha.

And stuff that was cut out usually was just cut out because people's attitudes changed.

There was a big black plague a while ago and no one really wants to hear about heaven and angels after a big black plague.

So you don't have to read that anymore.

But you can't just use the lance of longevity...

You know, I almost think that would be more comforting, though.

Age of Reason was kind of dawning.

Ah, so if you can't see it and smell it and taste it, it doesn't exist.

It's our famous lance.

Ah.

There it goes.

And some Longinus.

Whoosh.

You know where Longinus comes from.

Longinus was the Roman soldier who threw the spear that embedded himself in Christ's side when he was on the cross-face. - Now, we've amped up the sound effects here on this scene where she's holding the angel with one hand and shooting it with the other, because the Japanese, bless their hearts, put this really irritating boing, boing, boing noise in.

And it's such an intense part of the movie that it just seems so inappropriate to me.

So we tried to bury that as much as humanly possible. - But it's still on the Japanese track if you prefer the original. - Yep. - I'm under 10%! - Yeah, this is Armisail.

Angel of the womb is our little white dragon there.

Um, which actually really resembles a lot of photographs of the original cherubs, the cherebrum, which were always thought to be kind of wheel-shaped. - Really? - Yeah, angels had very odd...

They were chariot angels and they were, uh...

They were called, actually, uh, ophanim at the time.

Basically, they were wheels.

They were big, fiery energy wheels.

Hot wheels of passion.

Literally, I found somebody who called them that in one of my older texts.

"Hot Ways of Passion."

That was the series they put out in the '70s.

"Hot Ways of Passion," yes.

Lowriders with fuzzy dice.

It usually played at the drive-in as a double feature with HOTS.

Which was cheerleader.

Now, the whole Evil Dead thing where the veins kind of pop out... ...is interesting here.

They just found ways to really creepily...

Anything.

Yeah, this whole film is about finding ways to make the torture of these poor characters just as unbearable as humanly possible.

Oh, yeah.

So that by the time the end of the world comes, we're ready for it.

Now, a lot of people have asked me when Rey has a little sort of conversation within her mind with herself, is it conscious versus subconscious, ego versus super ego?

Personally, I think it's that the human aspect of Rey is confronting the angel aspect of Rey.

When she's realizing what she's truly made of.

This is another scene that, if I'm not mistaken, is not in the American release.

No, I think it's in the director's cut, though.

I'm not totally sure on that.

But we did a lot of research in doing the movie, and we had a hard time finding this scene. and we went, oh, it wasn't in the original.

I think they just decided that Fiyutski couldn't end the series without having something a little shady about him, too.

He was trying to get his best friend's girl.

Yeah.

Only Pen Pen gets out unscathed.

See, the thing is, I always felt that, I mean, ever since they did the episode where it sort of introduces Fiyutski, looking after Yui's research and whatnot.

I always felt that he had a big crush on her, that he was in love with her.

I also did the voice of Yui because, first of all, we couldn't get in touch with Kim Sevier, and second of all, because to me, it just seemed to make sense that if Rey is a clone of Yui, that whoever does Rey's voice should probably do Yui's voice.

This is the scene where Spike dubbed Gendo Shadowbone because in a few moments you will see there is a big shadow cast and it looks like he has this ginormous bone.

Wait, it's coming up.

Coming up.

There it is!

Shadow bone, shadow bone.

I swear, in between takes for like an hour, Spike would just start singing verses about shadow bone.

This film drove me to shave my head, my God.

You really are a cycle of Anna.

I do my alms now.

They are three wise men, three magic, named after the three wise men who very little has actually been written.

There's not a ton out there that's really, I would say, credible.

A lot of people will talk, but there's a lot of stories to tell about them, but really most of that stuff was made up in the last hundred years.

It's cute.

It's cute.

It's just fun.

This is Laura Chapman doing...

Dr.

Akagi.

Dr.

Akagi.

She did a wonderful job.

I love this scene.

It is so evil.

And it just makes me so happy.

Children get strangled.

It's wrong, evil, and bad.

And it kind of made me giggle.

I think it's because Ray is so evil to her.

It's just...

The whole thing is just wrong.

It's wonderful.

People that often haven't seen this movie laugh at this scene because it's just so weird to see this little child being so old, yeah, calling her old hag.

One would almost think that this was set up.

There's definitely a fate theme in this film, if for no other reason than Ode to Joy, and one would wonder if there was some plan in sending Rey in there that day, if this was the way to get rid of the doctor, the good doctor.

And there's also an interesting blood sacrifice kind of metaphor going on that she bleeds all over the three computers, which is this new creature that she's created. - And imbued with her heart and soul. - It's that sacrifice, and we have tablas.

A choice is made, and we have created something which will change the world. - Interesting.

Oh, this is the one. - Oh no, go ahead. - We, uh.

Okay, that noise for the angel It was actually a camel scream that we digitized and put grumpy flutter on it and pitched it and did all this crazy weird stuff, but it was so amazing to take this totally organic sound and turn it into this otherworldly terrifying thing.

There was angel noise that neither Taliesin nor I could seem to get.

Obviously in the future they use old power books, a lot of old equipment.

You can actually buy them.

They were selling the Nerve power book.

Oh, okay.

Awesome.

And cell phones.

Oh, there's a tie-in for everything.

Zuriel, this poor angel who's about to get what's coming to him, is mostly associated with the moon.

He's got some other interesting associations.

That's my favorite, though, because from this point on in the show, the moon figures in pretty heavily.

We will get to that a little later, though.

Now, I did the Ava growls and soon-to-be munching noises here.

It was kind of one of the creepier things to do, but it's just so feral.

It's like this weird insectozoid rabid dog type.

Yeah, that was such a weird...

It's such a creepy scene, I think, in general.

It's the eyes in the human hand that really always got to me.

There's something that really is disturbing down to the very core of a human being, watching this.

And just the motions here.

This is like, "Oh, you've caught the dog and he's eating something he shouldn't be eating."

And then he's like, "All right, fine.

I'm proud of it."

This is Keith Burgess took over the role of Hugo for the movie.

Free of what?

Best line!

Best line.

Free of what?

We love that one.

Brian Granvelt was unavailable for the project, so we had...

Keith Burgess took over that role.

Unit 1 has been awakened and set free.

Sele sure won't stay quiet for this.

Is this part of your scenario, Commander Ikari?

Sele is, as our official word goes, is German for sold.

There was a couple other interpretations running around for a while, but...

I dug up the...

Gehern.

Gehern.

Gehern for the mind, yeah.

Good for the mind and the soul.

Ray in the hospital once again.

First cranial nerve.

All of this underground Tokyo complex is very much designed to function and work like a human brain.

Everything is named after functions and parts of the human brain and things that...

Anyway, thank you for saving me.

It's all very intellectual in design.

You saved me.

I really don't have the brain to go into every little bit and detail of it, But if you're willing to sit down with a Grey's Anatomy and map out the Tokyo 3 complex, you can figure out where people are and where they're heading.

It's very unusual.

Why do they always do those bubbles?

It looks like somebody tooted in the tank.

All right, it's just me.

Sorry.

The race stew scene.

Race stew.

Yeah, we're into the disturbing imagery.

Yeah, once again, this one kind of creeped me out.

Do you notice that these rays actually have nipples?

Nipples and smiles.

Nipples and smiles.

Two things you don't see very often.

You know what?

I'm going to make a band called Nipples and Smiles. 70s cover band.

Yes.

They have a name for that room.

Chamber of Goth.

Chamber of Goth, thank you.

I looked and I looked, and I cannot find any other reference other than the one we found for it, which I can't remember at the moment.

It was the article written by some religious professor referring to it.

It's from the book of Enoch, right?

It is an Enoch, so I'm told, but I haven't been able to find it in any of the three books of Enoch yet.

It must be somewhere.

We do know it is the room of unborn souls, of souls that have yet to have had lives.

Which actually is ironic, Because these are bodies that are yet to have souls.

So it's like the anti-chamber of guff.

Yes, I do.

I'm destroying the-- Now it's the lake in MacArthur Park.

It's all the play pieces.

Yeah, only one soul for all those bodies.

You're late!

Sorry, sorry.

Which again, Aaron Crone is Kaworu.

Who knew that the bringer of impending dune played the violin?

That's-- I always thought violin players were kind of evil. strange hands.

So once again why do they, what's this concerto whole little, this arrangement thing they're doing here?

The alternate universe of what life could have been.

No, well, no, wait, this little thing?

This is actually, this is in continuity, I found out.

This did happen.

This is just a day at school, about, I guess it's maybe a week before everything goes down.

Oh really?

Yes.

They were all apparently got together and did this musical number.

It's just a framework obviously.

They really...

Where did you hear that?

I'm trying to remember.

It was in one of... something I picked up in Japan if I recall.

I have... everything comes from so many different sources on this film.

You have to just because whether or not it was meant to be there you can you can just analyze this movie from any aspect and find interesting parallels it is it is base myth and in base myth you can find all sorts of different angles let's go brad weaver's toji the reluctant ava pilot our black ava this Yeah, so a 13th angel.

Bardial.

Angel of Hail.

Never quite dealt with that one.

One of the two angels.

They had two Avas over in Nevada.

The silver one and the black one.

The silver one got blown up, and the black one got infected with this angel.

Or is this angel?

There is a story in some biblical texts of certain angels being the carriers of the souls of the dead look like demons so that they can pass into hell untouched that is that is not from enoch as far as i know i believe it's from milton not milton uh dante one of the two you read them both so it would make sense that there was kind of the stealthy the stealth angel don't mind me just He's carrying a soul?

I can't!

If he's still alive, we've got to try and help him!

I just can't kill another human being!

It's him or you!

No!

No!

Love the way he does this.

A little indents on the neck.

It's really well done.

Looks painful.

Correct.

Switch all control to the dummy plug system.

But sir, the dummy plug isn't fully operational yet.

Dr.

Hakagi hasn't approved its use.

It's still better than the current pilot!

So the dummy plugs were in theory actually piloted by some of the spare rays.

And I thought they were talking about the next set of production evas were maybe even spare kawarus.

They were.

Yes.

They were spare kawarus.

Actually there's like...

Never quite. ...a frame, maybe two frames in Rebirth where you see the plugs being screwed into the EVA series.

A little blip.

And if you pause it, it says "Kuaru" along the side.

Aren't you glad you bought the DVD now?

Yeah.

Frame by frame.

Get to go through it.

We'll give you some more goodies in the end of "Evangelii."

There's some really great freeze frames in there.

Freeze frames, yeah.

A friend of mine who loves the psychological aspect of the show once postulated that Shinji is actually feeling the rage too since it is a synchronization she said it was the robot that saved our lives eva and the pilot that that's part of the torture of this this particular scene oh interesting feel that one for a little while oh man yeah he's not just witness to this that he's part of it wow this movie makes my head hurt Chris Spike Spencer once again did an amazing, amazing job.

Stop!

Father, no!

One of those scenes.

Oh, and cut to the girlfriend.

That's just brutal.

This is Kimberly Yates.

She kind of did a lot of the different voices.

She just, she, we love working with Kimberly because she just cracks us up.

What shall I cook is one of my favorite lines of this whole deal.

So cute.

Is she from the TV series or is she, uh...

I'm sorry?

Is she from the original series?

No, originally it was Carol Amerson was Hikari, but again, another actor fell off the face of the earth.

She was a radio DJ in Houston and don't know where she went.

It seems like you're always the life of the radio DJ.

Commander Ryutski is the one who's probably working in Albuquerque right now.

Have you been asking around about your father?

I just haven't been around him much.

And Ray's glasses, her symbol of the one nice act that she's had, I imagine, in her very short life.

The young tough Kendo.

It's Kaji, right?

That's why we spend so much time...

Yeah, Kaji's speaking to Shinji.

He's kind of...

Kaji is kind of...

Shinji's...

What Shinji would love his alter ego to be, this cool, smooth, you know... just pimp daddy kind of, you know.

He's also one of the most really understandable characters.

He speaks and it sounds like it makes sense.

I don't mean to interrupt.

This is my favorite scene.

This is Allison playing Masato and she's had a few drinks and I just love her right here.

Should I buy you some fire?

I just love And actually, when they switch here to this two shot, she talks about homeostasis.

And I'm just so sad we had to bury it because there was this other new conversation going on.

But we laughed a lot in the studio on that.

Allison did an amazing job.

I don't think anyone could ever have done the role of Misato Justice the way Allison did.

Actually, when Mac Greenfield and I were originally casting the series, I wanted to read for Masato, because I thought she was just a great, really cool character.

And then Alison came in and read for her, and I just heard Alison read, and I went, OK, never mind.

She was so dead-on perfect that we couldn't not cast her.

There's nothing like hearing somebody do your part so much better.

It's like, damn it.

OK.

Well, there goes that part.

I always joke that Mac cast me as Ray because he wanted to keep me quiet for a while.

He was tired of listening to me do all these spazzy young characters.

Wait, here he comes.

Here he comes.

Are we going to talk about this?

In a minute.

Okay.

Hi.

You're a little late, aren't you?

Oh, my God!

They killed Kaji!

You bastards!

Why won't you listen to me?

Kaji is dead!

I've been waiting to do that for a year, dude.

Well, on the original Japanese soundtrack, That sound was a much less pronounced shot.

It sounded like someone got slapped.

And we weren't happy with that, so we put in a great gunshot, or Sean, our sound engineer.

Sound god.

Put in a great shot there.

That is one of the big questions of Ava.

Who shot Kaji?

I mean, we get asked that a lot at conventions, and I think it's yet another give them something to talk about in the parking lot moment where, you know, it's...

They're not gonna tell us.

It's Japanese film.

You don't get answers.

You get questions.

Exactly.

You're gonna have to live with that.

My favorite, though, is when some fans come up to me and say, "What was it?"

Oh, they were talking about a part in, uh... in, uh, the Eva movie where there's one part where Gendo's lips move.

Right, right.

And no sound comes out.

And he's like, "Well, uh, I have a friend who read the lip flaps, and he says that it said blah, blah, blah."

And Jason's...

Jason goes, "Um, it's a cartoon!"

It's lip flaps.

That's all they do.

This scene is actually probably just one of the sweetest scenes in all of cinema, I think.

Just this little exchange between the two.

And it's so cute when Shinji gets embarrassed when he calls him Mr.

Ikari.

It's just a little blush and everything.

And I think both Spike and Aaron did an incredible job of capturing that.

This whole...

I mean, there is some homoeroticism under this scene, but that's not really what this scene is about.

So it's just so precious, I think.

Yeah, it's people bonding.

It's a friendship, and a real friendship.

I've always thought that...

It's funny, because the character of Quarro is so brilliant and so cruel.

Because this is the only character that has ever said to Shinji that he's loved.

Quarro tells Shinji that he loves him, and then Shinji is forced to kill him.

That's just way, way too depressing.

It's the essence of sacrifice.

The essence of honor.

It's the essence of honor.

I could bottle it.

I hate you.

Don't talk to me ever again.

Guaranteed to clear a room.

I saw this episode with a room full of Kabbalists.

It was funny.

The minute we heard Oda Joy being hummed, we realized she was doomed.

So there's a room full of occultists going, oh no.

Well, which symbolism does Odejoy have?

Odejoy, according to some people, and I'll back this up, he's quite possibly one of the great human achievements.

Oh, absolutely.

It almost justifies our worth on this planet that this exists.

As Kororo says earlier.

One of the greatest human achievements.

And it's about destiny.

It was really, as the author himself will admit, it's about destiny and beyond religious destiny, spiritual destiny.

And Kawada being this angel of free will.

And in my opinion, there's also a bit of Gabriel in here.

We have music and we have that musical grand finale which Gabriel has always promised that he's going to bring us at the end.

And one of the most human of the angels.

I won't believe that Karu's an angel.

It's a lie!

It's this moment of decision.

It's this decision of who is going to...

Is the sacrifice going to be made or are we not going to be capable of it?

Of the individual and how the individual shapes the world around them.

That line, Shinji, you're late, is just such a multifaceted line.

To me, I always kind of get teary listening to it.

He's late to so many things.

Oh, it's just so beautiful.

And then we get into our AT Fields.

The angel wore tennis shoes.

It's just such a funny-- No, no, no.

And once again-- The converse of our destruction.

The converse is fabulous.

We're so going to get hate mail.

Once again, Aaron Crone just did an amazing job with this.

Just absolutely beautiful.

Got him!

Stop!

I'd better call it on than I would have ever imagined.

And Spike does a wonderful job at portraying just how tortured Chinchius in this sequence.

This sort of wrestling between trying to save the world and not wanting to kill his best friend and only love.

Something interesting I came across a couple nights ago, I was reading through Mr.

Crowley's book of Thoth, and he was talking about the Cain and Abel method from an appalled standpoint. and how the murder of the brother and how it represents to another symbol of the tarot card of the lovers and how it's really about this act of Cain, who really did love his brother.

There was a real love.

The sacrifice of that which gave you love and that which you loved most was actually the first...

It was the first time biblically that God really paid attention to what we were doing and the first time that he personally... - It's a mankind's faith. - Got in there and got involved And this is certainly the same act.

And this is certainly about to get God's attention.

Oh, yeah.

Something interesting.

That is interesting.

Aoba, this was my character.

He didn't do much in...

He actually had more of a role in the movies than he did the original series.

He was just kind of the button pusher more and the announcer of horrible things.

Impending doom.

Yeah.

I really always loved our little Greek chorus.

The three, yeah.

Gendo's Peeps.

Gendo's Peeps.

It's Posse.

This music is so beautiful.

They've got such an incredible rendition as well.

I've never been able to find a copy of this piece of music that I've loved more than this copy.

Again, a soundtrack worth picking up.

Here you see between the...

I love this music.

This is Hugo and Masato's, their whole tension.

Unrequited love thing.

There's all this small little inter-office vibes going on there.

Except for Aoba and his guitar.

Aoba gets nothing in this.

He's the only guy who gets no action at all in the whole series.

Even Ray at the end doesn't do anything for him.

I mean, it's just amazing.

Literally, he's the...

And he's the rock star.

I mean, for crying out loud, he should be getting more than anybody.

Lilith.

I see.

I understand now.

Lilith.

Lilith.

Lilith.

I like how there's all this insane action going on in the background.

He's just sort of standing there, floating there with his hands in his pants.

Oh, that's what it's all about.

You know, if I could float, I wouldn't be that interested either.

Just saying so.

And we have our sacrifice.

Blood has been spilled.

We are standing knee -deep in Lula's blood to begin with.

No menstruation analogy there.

No.

It's there.

It's part of it.

She was cut in half.

Right down there.

I mean, she had the longulis lance in her.

They removed it, and half of her grew back.

I mean, there's a lot to be said there.

And you can see the little rays they've been pulling off of her wound.

They've been making little girls out of her wound. talking about please don't make me do this another connection worth playing with that mask by the way the seven eyes of god is is very worthwhile um i actually wrote this down so i'm so impressed with the finding you are not the existence which should die several times in in the bible it's mentioned that it is what you god has seven eyes and and so we have this again is also god's number - Seven as well. - Seven as well.

One eye on unit zero, two eyes on unit one, four eyes on unit two. - On unit two, yeah. - Yeah, it's seven eyes. - Oh, wow. - Celia's a logo as well.

Just another thing worth taking a look at and worth looking at later.

Now, didn't he say...

No.

Which Babylonian god was unit one modeled after?

God, I...

There's been a bit of debate about this.

I've heard some odd human being that I talked to at a convention said Ishtar.

I've never really gone with that one.

God, I wanted to say Unicron, but there's a single-horned demon in the Babylonian pantheon that, again, has been turned into a demon for the Christian mythos and is involved very much in that same Cain and Abel movement and that same sacrificial movement.

Again, it's the same theme repeated over and over again, sacrifice and movement, sacrifice and movement.

I find it interesting in this scene that we didn't see Shinji go to the cockpit and tormenting with the whole decision.

It just showed the...

It almost makes it more excruciating that they don't show it.

That one's like the elevator scene, yet it's way more poignant with the music and whatnot.

Now, is this log formation an angel?

It certainly looks like one of the later units, doesn't it?

It does, and it's obviously a tree, but I've always thought it looked like an angel, especially maybe when, reminiscent of the part where...

One of the Eviseries.

When every series was eating the angel, taking it in, that whole, you know, kind of that bent-over, haunched type thing.

Want some freestyle occultism here?

Go for it.

Okay, well, right now we're talking about a major religion that's been in the news a lot recently.

There's definitely something to be said about someone kneeling towards a sunset, isn't there?

Oh, okay.

I see.

I just picked that up just now.

Again, every time you watch this film, something new comes in.

Something that doesn't matter if it was intended to be there, it's there.

And you have to, much like an amazing painting, you have to kind of take it in.

And this is probably one of the most beautiful credit sequences I've ever seen.

The sun is setting.

Yeah.

They animated it.

The sun is actually moving.

If you fast forward it, it slowly just kind of...

Sinks.

Sinks.

And something I noticed watching this with the air back-to-back is the opening scene of Air is the reverse shot of this.

Really?

Yes, it is.

We'll see that in the next commentary.

I will point it out.

It's this shot reversed with the log, and he's looking, it's bright, and he's looking for, like, say he was past that pole.

He's on the other side of that pole, and obviously he's not in this lake, but that's the shot.

And I noticed that.

And once again, it's something you don't notice.

It's the first time it's ever in the crew to make.

You'll pick it up.

Unless I'm completely wrong.

We'll take a look and find out.

Either way, it's very interesting.

I do know that we do start on a side of the lake, and right now we're in the lake.

So we will take a look at that when we get back from this.

Oh, and now we're on a second volley of credits.

This is the never-ending credit sequence.

But, you know, that's wonderful that they made it so beautiful.

I almost feel guilty talking over it because it's so...

They can turn us off at any time.

That is true.

It's just so gorgeous.

They can zoom, they can rewind it again.

It is an amazing, amazing piece of music.

Again, this piece of music is the theme throughout all of this part of the show, of this film, the canon.

I suppose we should...

Well, yeah, I guess we're about at the end, so thank you very much for listening to the commentary.

I hope we gave you some insight into the production and obviously Taliesin gave us a lot of background in mythology and all the kind of symbolism. - That was just loud. - Well, you know. - So we hope that you will join us for our commentary on Rebirth and on Air and Sincerely Yours. - More occult and voice acting fun. - More to come. - More to come.

  The End I talked about at the end of Eva where it's basically the reverse shot of the final credits that we see.

At the end of death.

You're right.

Wow.

You're the smartest.

And it's into the blue.

We've gone from an orange shot over there to the blue over here.

Right.

And I just discovered that just yesterday, as a matter of fact.

So you still discover things in this movie that you did not notice.

This movie is so multi-layered and multifaceted.

It's amazing.

Now, Spike Spencer, who played Shinji, of course, when I first told him about this opening sequence, Spike's response was to start laughing and turn to me and go, of course.

Of course that's what Shinji does.

So, at least it wasn't a shock to him.

I think we can all comment on our first time seeing this scene, that is.

We're fooling around.

Yes, thank you.

I was actually with a group of friends watching this for the first time.

About five guys, four girls, were all sitting in the back of a bank room.

It's an anime club.

All the guys at once, there was just this moment where we all realized what was going on and just all lost it.

And not a girl in there caught on.

Until he had the handful of baby batter?

No, they even didn't get it then.

No.

I had no idea.

It was some of the densest women ever.

This is a bad moment.

Handful of baby batter.

That's just good cinema.

And actually the line he delivers when he, after the thing, is very controversial.

We went away with it that we believe is very true to the original.

And there's, of course, this is one of these things.

Many different people say it's a different, many different interpretations from the Japanese.

Yes, there was one fan who actually told us that we were using gratuitous swearing.

And I disagreed strongly.

I think that in this particular situation, the fact that a 14-year-old boy is wanking over the comatose body of a 14-year-old girl...

Money shot.

I think to have him say, I'm so fucked up.

Yeah, exactly.

That's pretty much right there.

Now, at the conventions, though, we have actually been screening this at conventions.

By the time you see this, you'll probably have seen it at a convention.

But that line always gets a huge amount of applause.

Yeah.

It's amazing.

So that one fan who didn't like it, don't watch.

Not our problem.

And here's where Aoba gets fleshed out as a little more of a grumpy character.

It's just a bad coffee day, I think.

End of the world would be a bad coffee day.

This whole end of the world day, he's grumpy this whole day pretty much.

This whole episode, these two episodes, he's just, he's like, you know, you people are idiots basically.

Here's once again Allison Keith, amazing, amazing actress.

She's always just done an incredible job with Misato.

And, oh, I meant to send her, there's some fan forums and some web boards saying, you know, oh, the only reason I watched Evangelion is because I wanted to see Alice and Keith do Misato again.

So, I don't think she ever knew that.

She needs to know that.

She's awesome.

She'll never listen to the commentary anyway.

That's okay.

She couldn't be bothered.

Here we have Salee a little more fleshed out.

It's Salee the Space Odyssey at this point.

Yeah, exactly.

The obelisks.

Okay, does anybody else think that Fuski looks like Jay Leno with the ginormous chin?

Yes, the Kawamori...

There's you.

That was you.

We need not cast aside our human form.

I admit I'm running the Illuminati.

I'll admit it to it right now.

It's interesting they put sound only on the obelisk like that.

Like, we don't see the disembodied, you know what I mean?

Well, yeah, originally in the show, there's the holographic projections of all of them.

That's why they're all different colors.

So they're having technical difficulties at this point.

I think they just can't be bothered at this point.

They're not shaving.

They're saving money for the big end of the world sequence.

Which the people who run this, what they're going to be doing up to the very last moment is just making sure they've got down those 20 bucks.

Making sure they have Cab Fair home.

They learned their lesson from the first one, so that was a series.

I can drag that into an interesting occult place, actually.

There's a big thing in this film about the fruit of life and the fruit of wisdom, which, as we all know, we ate the fruits of wisdom in the garden.

Very significant.

Go on.

Yes.

And we're banished before we could eat the fruit of life.

A lot of the times fruit of wisdom is considered to be a material, intellectual look at the world, whereas the fruit of life, not just being eternal life, but is a spiritual connection with God.

It's a little bit too much intellectualism and things start to go.

And explain the very significant comment you just made about the glasses.

This is when you first realize that Rey has turned against Gendo.

She's thinking on her own.

And then not only that, the scene that came afterwards was Shinji curled up with his recorder and the battery was dead.

The first time I saw that, it gave me chills.

I couldn't explain why.

It wasn't that incredibly significant.

But for some reason, I just thought that that was a smart choice.

Masato's moved on to canned coffee now instead of beer.

That would panic anybody.

That should panic anyone.

Actually, we saw that one.

There was a poster that had all the female cast of Eva holding that canned coffee.

Yeah, the UCC coffee that everybody drinks.

Official coffee of the apocalypse.

You're a post-apocalyptic caffeine source.

See, look, Leno.

Totally Leno Yeah, character designs got a little funny for this film He looks a little bit like the guy from Battle Angel Oh, uh, you know There's not much you can say at this point This is an amazing techno babble that they managed to run through this entire sequence Which was a big pain in the neck to translate It's always the worst And I remember I was writing that part of the script And I'd come upstairs and I'd say to Jason You should be writing this part, it's all boy stuff I don't know any I had to do a lot of research so I actually knew what I was talking about when I wrote all that stuff.

I have a question about this.

Okay.

Do you think that she's already set in motion the plan to betray Gendo before this all happens?

Or do you think she does it now?

No, I think she does it while she's programming the computer.

But in this sequence or previous before that she was put in the brig?

I think in this sequence.

Because in the episode in the series where she actually goes into the Magi, she hasn't become disenfranchised from Gendo yet.

There used to be a very interesting Ritsuko-Kowaru connection that was highlighted in the animated series just a little bit.

It was just touched, and nothing ever really came of it.

Anybody should go through the director's versions of the last few episodes and see if there's anything new there.

I haven't gotten that far in my copy yet.

Because they must have gotten Quadra from somewhere.

Someone postulated that they got it from Ritsuko.

What do you mean?

That it's part Lilith, part Ritsuko?

The same way that Rey is from...

Oh, you mean like, oh, do you think Ritsuko's mother?

Either Ritsuko's mother or Ritsuko herself.

She had, we're not really, there's been some postulation both ways.

It's been around the argument table before.

Interesting.

Yeah.

It's, again, just another question that they will never answer with this film.

Yeah, there are some people who say that this is Anno's way of saying up yours to the fans.

Because after he finished the series, he got a lot of death threats.

And so apparently he sort of said, okay, fine, you want another ending?

Here you go.

And came up with this incredibly disturbing movie.

It's kind of fun.

The entire fan wish list really does come true in this way.

You get to see Asuka kick some butt.

You get to see everybody kind of come together, all these relationships resolve.

But in the most horribly painful, unsatisfactory...

It's like a deal with the devil.

You know what I mean?

You get everything you would ever wish for, but it's all...

But it's all just gone wrong.

It's gone horribly awry.

This is Keel, Tom Booker, who we met through Second City.

He's a very, very wonderful, very funny guy.

You've seen him in commercials and whatnot.

He's a very talented actor, and he enjoyed playing Keel.

Showtime, ladies.

I love that line.

Okay, this is our friend Riley Barber, who is also an accomplished stand-up comic.

He travels the world doing comedy, and I love the way he delivers that line.

And I don't know why I wrote it that way, Showtime ladies, I just, for some reason I just kept thinking of some really tough as nails sergeant who always refers to the guys, you know, his special elite corps as "Come on ladies, let's go kick some butt" kind of thing.

So, again, strictly for my own amusement, but I think it worked.

Well, it's gotta be amazing Kazangas to think you could take Nerve.

I mean, you gotta think of the people they were sending in to take this place out.

This is the front of angel attack.

This is not the NWL.

This is not Kuwait.

These are people with guns.

Amy does a great job of capturing Buki's whole Buki's like us.

The viewer.

She is the viewer's voice, I think.

She speaks what we're thinking.

You know, anytime there's an Ava eating something it shouldn't be eating she's the one that shows the disgust and the fear.

She's the most human of them all.

That was such a grunty death.

He didn't actually stab him.

It was a Carl's Jr. sandwich.

It got all over the place.

If you have the DVD where this thing gets shot, this truck, if you go back and forth, you can make it.

It looks like it's coming alive.

And our punchy moments while we were recording this, we had a lot of fun with the sound tech.

Keith Aram, our sound tech on that portion of it, we just had a blast.

I think we laughed harder than we had any right to at that point.

But you can make him, the truck, kind of jump and come alive.

It's great.

Again, with a movie that's so hardcore and so serious that there's times when you just have to escape from the gravity of the situation, and that's when we usually start messing around.

Which is why we're all being funny right now as well.

This is one of the most horrific pieces of violence I think it's certainly ever put to sell, if not film.

Absolutely.

And you can only see it so many hundreds of times before you just have to start laughing as a defense mechanism.

And if you're listening to this commentary, you probably have seen it a couple hundred times at this point, so laugh with us.

Share the laughter.

Okay, I have to point something out.

Whenever they draw Ray...

Now, she's obviously naked, so I understand.

But whenever they draw Ray on a poster, they always show her little hiney crack from behind. doesn't matter clothes, whatever.

They always make a point of showing Ray's little hiney.

I don't understand that.

So now, what were you saying about the seven pools?

Oh, okay.

Yeah, that, she was kind of sitting in this LCL pool right there.

It was kind of shaped out as the Kabbalistic tree of life, kind of a close modern one.

And it's a little off, but we kind of figured out she's sitting in what is called Yasad, which is this one particular sphere of this map of the universe.

And it's the Hebrew for hot tub, I think.

I'm sorry.

It's very much, it's the gateway of death.

It's the doorway into the dream realm, into the ethereal.

She is on the cusp of death.

She is ready to cross out of this world into the next, if we are to read it that way, which, I don't know.

I'd like a full shape that way.

But yes, of course we have to read it that way.

Why not?

This film is meticulous in its ability to be completely incomprehensible. delights in disturbing and confusing its viewers.

Violence, on the other hand, we can all understand.

We understand that.

That's pretty easy to get through.

We got our Greek chorus.

Again, yes.

Just telling us everything.

Everything we want to know about what's going on.

And then some.

Towson has wonderful diagrams.

Oh, here's some wonderful...

Kimberly Yates.

Kimberly Yates dying.

Oh, oh, oh, oh!

This I added strictly for my own amusement.

I didn't think...

Ooh, here it comes.

Yay!

Because otherwise it's just like this random person blasting him with flame.

That's the only thing we altered from the original Japanese.

Otherwise, honest to God, we tried to do word for word the same as the original.

We really tried to...

It was almost more of just a translation than an adaptation.

You know?

Now we have the Blake.

When I first saw this, I thought they were just filling the place with LCL or something.

But this is fast, fast-drying plastic.

Really good idea to keep people out.

That didn't work.

Well, no, it didn't work.

Didn't work.

That won't work.

No.

No.

I wish they would show how they got through that, though.

I was always kind of curious.

How exactly did they get through the liquid plastic?

They just had the lighter up to it.

You don't think?

Well.

No, we never got to see, did we?

Allison is so awesome.

She plays the most amazing badass.

She really took off of this particular section of the film, really.

She got to shine.

Oh, dear.

This is kind of where you get to see the relationship between Aoba and the rest of the staff.

He's definitely the cynic, like, dude, we're all going to die.

This is just cranky and he's the fatalist of the bunch.

Basically because he has no action on the side.

He gets no love at all of all the characters in this show.

This is really the most involved they ever, the three of them, really get.

This is a real kind of dirty, filthy deal they have to deal with here.

This scene particularly with Ibuki definitely captures his character.

Sort of no patience for weakness.

Well, this line here.

You kill or you die.

You kill or you die.

If I'm, you know, Oba's such a minor character in the series in a way, and if I ever get asked to repeat a line, it's always that line.

You kill or you die.

So it's...

Those are Ray innards.

That's the disintegrated clone tank.

Chamber of Guff.

Chamber of Guff, yeah.

Not the antechamber, right?

Well, that's...

Because it's bodies but no souls.

Well, I suppose so.

It would be worth, God, if anyone ever finds out exactly where that is, and if they can quote it to me, I will be so happy.

And I looked for this symbol, and I cannot tell what they are standing on.

Gendo has the Tree of Life in his office.

You can see that pretty clearly.

I believe he's sitting at Kether.

I might be wrong with that.

But it would make sense that he would put himself at the godhead of the I am in control.

Oh, you're about to die.

There you are, Taliesin.

Ooh, you're dead.

Wait, wait, no, I'm not quite, okay.

Okay.

Go, go for a walk.

It gets so silly just dying for a day.

Just dying.

For money, yeah.

Dying for money.

Now this originally...

There's a taluson right there as well.

Taluson once again.

Did a beautiful job with this.

It's funny, it was originally...

You gotta love that.

Ow!

Oh, this is wonderful. we added a sound effect when she blows his brains out.

I don't know if you can hear it, but...

You hear that little...

We added that itch because it was so disgusting and wonderful.

Now, it's funny.

Originally, when I sort of envisioned this section of the movie with the guy holding the gun, I sort of envisioned this horrible guy who eats babies for breakfast kind of thing.

Sorry, kid.

And then Taliesin came in and did that read, and I was like, oh, that's even colder.

I love it.

Now, how significant is the number 667 at this point?

The Neighbor of the Beast.

The Neighbor of the Beast.

He gets the Beast's mail occasionally.

Sometimes the Beast's dog comes peas in his garden.

He just made this movie for people to freeze frame it and go through it frame by frame and find things.

It's this wonderful artistry mind screw at the same time.

Yeah.

Especially like in this scene, I think Spike was a little fed up with Shinji, I think.

But he found his way back to identifying with him and portraying the character.

I mean, Spike really did a brilliant job.

I cannot imagine anyone else doing as good a job with Shinji.

I can't imagine a more depressing role to take to try and deal with this day in and day out.

The classic anti-hero.

If he could be bothered even to be that.

Yeah.

It's part of what I really, really have always loved about this film is that I don't like him, but there's so many things in him that I don't like that I don't like about myself.

There's so many places where I see exactly where he fails, and you can't fight it.

You can't really disagree with it.

Here's the big boom.

Butt shaker.

Oh, wait, here we go.

Here's my second favorite line ever in this whole movie.

Hold on.

Oh, come on.

Here we go.

Speak of the devil.

Damn, haven't you ever heard of moderation?

Yes!

I love that line.

I love that line.

They're just things, no matter how many times I see this movie, they're just some things that still make me happy.

The room pauses every time that line comes up.

We all wait for your squeal.

For me, going, yee-hee.

Did we already go past BC Weapon?

Yeah, I guess we already had the...

You guys know what BC Weapons...

Biochemical.

Biochemical.

Yep.

I'm telling you, honey, the amount of research I did before even setting pen to paper to write the script was ridiculous.

It took me about a good four months to do this script.

Because I wanted to make sure that I had everything down.

So these are all spinal columns, basically?

This is the Eva graveyard.

These are prototypes that didn't work.

So this is a place where rednecks could go in with their own tools and maybe put their own Ava together.

Exactly.

Build your own Ava.

Yes, there really is almost a coherent thing going on with the Avas where they almost quite pull the whole thing together and it makes almost perfect sense.

And it would almost fake you to believe that you can figure everything out.

Oh, and we have the office.

I want a pendulum that big one day.

Yeah, that always sort of...

I looked at this and I was trying to figure out what the perspective is on it.

Are we looking through a clock?

Are we looking down a hall?

Or does he really just have this ginormous pendulum in the middle of his room that if you get up to try and clean a window, it could take you out?

I mean, what is that thing?

I had somebody once mention that there are three columns of light in this room and that that might represent the three columns from the cabal of the middle pillar, the pillar of mercy and the pillar of severity, and he's sitting at the very bottom right down there in the most earthly, practical place where so many of our problems come from.

This little mayor.

He's got some kind of...

He's just an official.

He's not Sealy.

He's not anybody.

He's a prime minister.

He's a prime minister.

He's kind of cut off from this whole deal.

It could be the three columns lighter.

It could be just they were trying to save money for the action sequence.

Sometimes a window is just a window.

Exactly.

And you often find if you play that sequence, for your cats, they will try to chase the pendulum.

And here we're going to get into some major action once Asuka kind of gets out of her...

Out of her funk.

This was an interesting...

Will you talk about directing Tiffany through this sequence?

Tiffany did an amazing job with this because it's a very, very difficult transition to go from completely insane inside your head to Absolutely.

She goes from completely suicidally depressed to the most confident, always beautiful character in the movie for just a few moments.

And then she kind of gets torn up and dies.

But Tiffany did a wonderful job with this.

Just the emotion behind it.

It was beautiful.

And actually, when I saw her in the booth, She would actually physicalize the lines.

I think that, I mean, you have to ask Tiffany, I would imagine that playing this role must have been pretty exhausting.

But she definitely did a good job.

Especially the, I mean, this line, I don't want to die, is repeated.

I mean, I'm sure somebody has counted it out somewhere, but it's...

I did, I don't remember how many times.

Too many times.

Oh, and then the voice of Asuka's mother was done by Kimberly Yates. who I think did a brilliant job.

You've got to freeze frame that sequence right there with the worms on the...

Yeah, there's one, like, for two frames you see a picture of Asuka's corpse and it's all maggot-written and she's in the plug suit.

It's really vile.

That'll give you some good nightmares for the weeks to come.

Here she goes.

Now she's going to go kick some butt.

Yeah!

This was a big complaint with fans for the TV series.

They felt that Oscar got taken out of the picture before we really got to see her go at it, so to speak.

Also, remember, this is around the Titanic time, I might add, so this just becomes funnier.

That would make me so happy to think there'd be a little tiny Leonardo DiCaprio in there just getting smushed.

I'm never going to work in Hollywood, am I?

No, you're not.

I'm done.

I'm done.

Leo's fine.

His AT field saved him.

This is really, it's the best we ever get to see an Ava really go at it.

They never have ever animated anything with this much action, this much movement.

It's a beautifully, beautifully animated fight sequence.

A little Macross montage right there.

One of my favorites.

She's so happy, though.

But that's the thing.

She goes from suicidal to, she's bipolar, I think.

Yeah, I think she can just not.

I think if she catches it with her face.

I think Xanax would be good for Asuka.

A little Zoloft, a little Paxson, just something. comment on the metaphor right there.

Oh, a big old wank in the face?

Yeah, yeah, yeah.

A big old exploding wank in the face.

I love that scene where she drives over the body and the arm goes...

There's just some things in there that you're just like, oh, this is so sick.

This is great.

Rewind.

Let me see that again.

You know?

Battery power.

That's another thing I always like.

The Avas are, in fact, if you pull the plug, they've got five minutes, give or take, depending on the plot line.

Great way to keep them in this one centralized location.

Great way to keep everything tied together.

This is really, especially for the time, you don't really notice it now because there's so many other shows out that are trying to be Evangelion.

Oh, yeah.

Nothing like this had really ever been seen before.

Oh, right there, Tiffany said, eat this ashloch.

That was Tiffany's writing, actually, because I just sort of said, what's an obnoxious word in German?

And because we'd already said Schweinhund.

And so then she came up with Aschloch, which I think is fairly self-explanatory.

I don't think I need to translate that.

Kids, go ask your parents.

That's what the Internet's for.

Exactly.

Exactly.

Do you guys remember, um, uh, oh, did you see that side, Quarrow on the side?

These things look like, do you guys remember the cartoon characters, the Shmoo?

Shmoo, yes.

From Heddle Barber.

There's something about the shape of the heads on the Emma series makes me think of a Shmoo.

Makes me think of the Mountain Dew Extreme commercials where a guy sky surfs and go catches a Mountain Dew in the middle of it.

You know, I mean, they've got their little surfboards.

It looks like the head of a porpoise, too.

And I never understood why they engineered them with these luscious lips.

Do you know what I mean?

It's downright terrifying.

They are the most frightening.

Ava's in drag with that lipstick.

Ah!

       The miracles will happen, no matter what ever The soul of the Rufura I'm going to go to the I'm the soul of the love I'm going to The world is born I'm still feeling calm and calm I'm trying to ask my life I'm asking for my life My is asking for me I'm going to be back to my life I'm living before you You have to go to the forest Come back to this hand To meet you The miracle will happen to you The world will be the "Ruflar" Thank you.

I will return to the first place to the first place in the world.

I'm the soul of I'm going to go back The soul of the soul The skin of the blue sky is filled with the skin *outro music*