Misato and Ayanami scare me.

Help me.

Help me, Asuka.

Hey, quit fooling around.

Come on.

Asuka, wake up.

This isn't funny anymore.

Asuka, wake up!

Asuka!

Asuka!

Help me.

Asuka, please help me.

I need you.

Please, Asuka, help me.

Call me an idiot like you always do.

Just say something, damn it.

Please.

Wake up!

I'm so fucked up.

All access to and from headquarters has been restricted?

We're on first level alert.

That doesn't make sense.

I thought Kwaru was the last angel.

He was.

All the angels have been defeated.

So if we're all safe, then what are we doing on first level alert?

What's going to happen to Nerve and the Evas?

I wish Dr.

Akagi was here.

Well, I think Nerve is probably just going to be disbanded.

And I don't even want to think about what they're planning to do with us.

All we can do is wait and see.

So mankind, a race of flawed and incomplete separate entities, has reached the end of its evolutionary potential.

The Instrumentality Project will manufacture the evolution of manned separate entities into a single consummate being.

And the Committee won't use Nerve or Atom.

They'll use the Evas.

Just like Kaji said they would.

The time is at hand.

Without the Lance of Longinus, we cannot use Lilith to complete the Project.

Our only hope is to proceed using Lilith's only true offspring, Eva Unit One.

That was not part of Sele's original plan.

Creating the Evangelion was the pinnacle of mankind's existence.

Humanity must evolve and shape this brave new world.

That was why we created the Eva series.

We need not cast aside our human form to use Evangelion as our own private arc.

It's merely part of the process to free us all for rebirth.

The fate of destruction is also the joy of rebirth.

Through the sacrament of death, God, humanity, and all living beings will be united and reborn as one.

Death creates nothing.

Your death will create an opportunity.

Mankind exists because it has the will to live.

After all, that's why she chose to remain in the Ava.

So... that's what really happened during the second impact.

They're on to me.

No, wait.

Something else.

Showtime.

Transfer the left circuits to the emergency communication systems.

Use satellite feed if you have to.

Correct.

What's the right side status?

Negative.

All outgoing network lines are being systematically cut off.

They're going after the Magi.

Data upload from external terminals.

Sir, it looks like they're trying to hack into the Magi.

Just as I thought.

Is the uplink coming from the Magi 2 and Matsushiro?

No, there are five Magi systems working together.

I've identified Germany, China, and the US.

So Sele is pooling all its resources.

Five Magi working against one.

Not good odds.

The fourth firewall has been breached!

Locking the main database.

Negative!

The system is being overtaken!

They've breached the next level!

The backup system didn't even slow them down!

This is bad.

If they capture the Magi, it's all over for us.

Let me guess.

They need help with the Magi's self-defense system.

That's right.

Report to the Second Command Center, where you will be briefed by Lieutenant Ibuki.

He expects the woman he abandoned to jump when he calls.

Arrogant bastard.

Talk to me, Hyuga.

Tokyo-2 is lunch.

Special Order A-801.

What's that supposed to mean?

Nerves, legal protection, and jurisdiction have been revoked.

Command has been transferred to the Japanese government.

They only gave us one warning.

It's a mess up here.

They tried to take over the magi, but we've been able to minimize most of the damage so far.

Ibuki here.

Dr.

Akagi is currently installing additional defense programs.

Huh?

Ritsuko?

Am I doing something stupid?

The interaction between men and women is so illogical.

Isn't that right?

Mother.

How much longer?

We should make it.

Dr.

Akagi is amazing.

One more minute and she'll be at page 120 in the manual.

Just hacking into the Magi?

Yeah, right.

Doubt they're gonna let us off that easily.

The Magi was just foreplay.

Sele is planning to launch an all-out offensive against headquarters and take the two Evas by force, aren't they?

Of course.

We have both Adam and Lilith.

No wonder the old bastards are so nervous.

External feed to the Magi has been halted.

A Da Nang B-type defense program is in place.

External access has been cut off for the next 62 hours.

Well, Mother, I'll see you soon.

Ikari has installed a Type 666 firewall on the Magi's external feed circuits.

That's very difficult to breach.

Apparently we will have to forgo acquisition of the Tokyo Three Magi.

I had hoped to settle this peacefully, but he leaves me no choice.

Launch the invasion forces immediately.

Showtime, ladies.

All units move out.

We've lost radar feed from sectors 8 through 17.

A large detachment of special force units has invaded the outer defense perimeter.

Two more units are in the Gotemba sector.

After all we've been through, our final enemy is our fellow man.

All personnel go to level 1 battle stations.

Battle stations?

This isn't an angel attack.

We can't kill humans.

I wish those bastards felt the same way.

Huh?

What's happening?

Hey!

What's wrong?

Transmission from the southern hub has been interrupted.

Uh...

Southern hub station has gone silent.

The west side attack is just a decoy.

If they're really after the Evas, they'll go after the pilots first.

Tell Shinji to stand by in unit one, got it?

Roger.

Where's Asuka?

She's still in recovery.

Get her suited up and get her in Unit 2!

Asuka's barely conscious.

There's no way she'll be able to synchronize.

If they find her, they're going to kill her.

If we put her in Unit 2, at least she'll be safe.

Understood, ma'am.

Cease Pilot's medical treatment and prepare her for launch.

As soon as Asuka's in there, stow Unit 2 at the bottom of the lake.

It's not the best hiding place, but it's better than the cage.

Where's Rey?

Unable to locate!

Pilot of Unit 0 is missing!

They will kill her!

Find her now!

*Gunshot* Launching Unit 2 via Gate Number 8.

The airway will remain at a depth of 70 meters.

Get ready to deploy Unit 1!

Station it in the geo-front!

We can't!

Shinji isn't there!

*gasp* Oh dear god!

The number three underground barricade has been destroyed!

Enemy forces have begun evading level two!

There's nothing more that we can do to hold them off.

Our defeat has become inevitable.

Professor Friutski, take care of this please.

Yes, Commander.

Please give my regards to Yui.

Internal monorail track 57 has been destroyed!

This is brutal.

I'd rather be fighting the angels.

Of course we don't normally fight human enemies.

*Groans* Ugh!

Sever those cables!

Start with the red ones!

*Screams * Hit 'em again.

*Screams* Level 3 block B has been invaded!

There's no stopping them!

Enemy presence confirmed in block F.

The main bypass is under fire!

Seal off levels 1 through 3!

Order a full retreat!

Release Bakelite infusion in all passages through section 803!

Right!

Well, that should buy us some time.

Major Katsuragi, Route 47 is completely blocked!

The third unit can't move forward!

Shinji is totally cut off!

All non-combat personnel should avoid engaging the enemy.

These guys are pros, so if you can't retreat to Central Dogma, you're better off just surrendering.

Take care of things here for me.

Right.

This is harder than we thought.

We never get the easy jobs.

This is insane.

The center was made to withstand angel attacks, not invading armies.

Safety off.

Yeah, we could barely hold off terrorists.

If the JSSDF decides to mount an all-out invasion, we're totally screwed.

Slowly but surely they've been cutting our defense budget.

I wouldn't be surprised if they've been planning this from the very beginning.

I wouldn't be surprised either.

HYAH!

*Gasp* Ray.

Ray.

I knew I'd find you here.

The time has come.

Let's go.

Level 1 has been secured, over!

Roger that.

We are moving in on the Magi in the Level 2 Command Center.

We are currently engaged in combat.

Please...

Jesus...

Please...

Class cooling of the Bitma Volgia sector immediately.

Terminate EVA pilots on site.

Execution of non-combat personnel has been authorized.

Inangahara and Shinjo units, proceed to lower level.

We've located the third child, commencing termination.

Sorry kid, nothing personal.

Hey!

What?

Hey, no offense taken.

Let's get you to Unit 1.

Come on.

What's the status of Detachment 7?

Have you reached the cage?

Over?

Roger that!

We have the purple unit surrounded.

The Bakelight infusion was not a problem.

The red unit has been launched.

We're attempting to establish which launch route was used.

Over.

Damn.

They're trying to prevent contacts between Shinji and Unit 1.

We're running out of time.

This is it, Shinji.

Do you want to run away or do you want to pilot the Eva?

It's your call.

If you sit there and do nothing, then you're already dead!

Help me, Oscar.

Help me.

Hiding behind the skirts of a little girl at a time like this?

Snap out of it!

Giving up halfway is worse than never trying at all.

Come on!

Get up!

Move it!

I...

I want to die.

Just leave me here.

Stop talking like a stubborn little brat!

Like it or not, you're still alive.

Get moving and do something.

You can die later.

Unimportant.

Securing Terminal Dogma is your number one priority.

Understand?

They've destroyed just about everything else.

Why don't they just nuke us and get it over with already?

Hey, if we weren't sitting on top of the original Magi system, they probably would have blown us to bits by now.

I guess that would explain why they haven't used any explosives yet.

I just hope they don't start using BC weapons.

Things could get pretty ugly.

That or in two minds.

*Clears throat* *Clears throat* Speak of the devil.

Damn!

Haven't you ever heard of moderation?

That was a little much.

Why can't they possibly want Eva this badly?

They plan to initiate Third Impact using the Eva series instead of the Angels.

Fifteen years ago, Second Impact was intentionally engineered by mankind because it was the only way to minimize the potential damage.

They had to reduce Adam to an embryonic state before the other Angels awoke.

You see, Shinji, mankind was spawned from a being called Lilith, just like Adam was.

We are the 18th Angel.

The other Angels are just different possibilities, what we could have become.

They're humans who rejected our human form.

Sadly, we cannot coexist together, even though we are fundamentally the same creatures.

Listen, Shinji, you're going to have to destroy the rest of the Eva series.

It's the only way to stay alive.

The phone lines are all dead.

Yes, sir.

Missile impact was confirmed three minutes ago.

This instrumentality project Nerve was secretly researching, trying to initiate third impact and destroy all of mankind.

The whole thing makes me sick.

Humanity is probably the only creature capable of hating its own kind.

Well then, I suppose all we have left to do is to destroy Nerve headquarters.

Should Germany or China begin redevelopment?

No.

We won't make the same mistake twice.

Make sure no one can touch it for the next twenty years.

Like old Tokyo.

Surface heat has dissipated.

High pressure steam discharges have also stopped.

All detachment's positions have been confirmed.

Dogma Level 3 and the Purple Unit are currently secured.

What about the red one?

It's in the lake about 70 meters down, Commander.

We can't determine whether or not the pilot is alive or dead.

I'm still alive. *cough* *Screaming* *Screaming* Don't wanna die.

Don't wanna die x3 I don't wanna die...

I DON'T WANNA DIE!!

Mama...

You've been here all along?

Mama!

*Ezio Mama!

Mama!

Now I understand!

The meaning of the AT field!

You were always protecting me!

Always watching over me!

Always!

We were always together, Mama!

Ebi Unit 2 has activated!

Asuka is okay!

She's alive!

Asuka!

The cable!

Focus on the cable!

Use whatever you can to sever it!

Scheist!

Even without my umbilical cable attached, I've still got 12,000 plates of fortified armor!

And I've got my AT field!

There's no way I can lose!

Eat this, ass schnook!

*Mindy music* That loathsome Evangelion.

Once again our plans will go unrealized.

It seems we'll have to fight fire with fire.

The EVA series... it's been completed.

Sele has dispatched all nine of the EVA units equipped with the S2 engines?

That seems like a bit much.

Unless... did they plan to start it here?

I'm not sure how Affirmative.

We have triple protection on the power supply.

As long as you get there in the next three minutes, it'll take you directly to Cage 7.

Destroy the rest of the Ava series, huh?

Is that any way to talk to someone fresh out of the hospital?

9 units in 3 and a half minutes.

So that's 20 seconds each with time to spare.

Esther...

This is it.

They got away.

Target has not been terminated.

Should we pursue them?

Over.

Negative.

That area has been targeted for demolition.

Pull back immediately.

Roger that.

Well...

That should hold them off for a while.

Don't worry.

It's not as bad as it looks.

The power is still on.

There's still time.

Should you listen to me?

From now on, you're on your own.

You'll have to make your own decisions.

No one can do it for you.

I...

I can't.

I'm no good.

I can't pilot Eva if all I do is hurt and kill people.

I thought I had no choice but to pilot Eva, but I was just lying to myself.

I'm not worthy of piloting an Eva because I don't understand anything.

I'm incapable of doing anything good for anybody else!

I did something terrible to Asuka.

I killed Garu!

I'm a horrible person!

I'm dishonest and a coward.

All I ever do is hurt other people, so I'd rather do nothing at all!

I'm not gonna feel sorry for you!

If you don't like feeling pain, then you can just sit here and let them kill you!

Crying isn't going to solve anything either!

You hate yourself, don't you?

That's why you hurt others.

Deep down, you know you suffer more when you cause someone else pain than if you just let yourself get hurt.

But Shinji, that was your decision, so it makes it a valid choice.

That's what you wanted, so that makes it worthwhile.

Stop lying to yourself and realize that you do have options.

Then, accept the choices you've made.

But you're not me.

You don't know what I have to go through.

You don't understand.

So fucking what if I'm not you?

That doesn't mean it's okay for you to give up.

If you do, I'll never forgive you as long as I live.

God knows I'm not perfect either.

I've made tons of stupid mistakes and later I regretted them.

And I've done it over and over again thousands of times.

A cycle of hollow joy and vicious self-hatred.

But even so, every time I learn something about myself.

Please, Shinji, you've got to pilot Eva and settle this once and for all.

For your own sake.

Find out why you came here.

Why you exist at all.

Answer your own questions.

And when you've found your answers, come back to me.

I'll be waiting for you.

Promise me.

Yes.

See you soon.

That was a grown-up kiss.

We'll do the rest when you get back, okay?

Okay.

If I had known it would end like this, I would have changed the carpet like Asuka suggested.

Pen Right, Pen Pen?

Kashi, my love, I did do the right thing, didn't I?

*crying* *Gunshot *crying* I've been waiting for you.

I'm sorry, but when I install the firewall, I change the Magi's programming without telling you.

A loving daughter's final request.

Mother, let's end it together.

It's not working!

Why?

Kaspar betrayed me!

Mother, how could you choose your lover over me?

Ritsuko Akagi The truth is...

Huh.

You liar.

What's happening up there?

Asuka has less than a minute left in her power reserves.

At this rate...

I cannot be defeated!

Mama?

Mother?

This is the last one!

The lands of Longinus...

Internal power supply depleted.

Operational limit has been reached.

Unit 2 has gone silent.

What the... the destroyed Evaseries units?

The Eva series has reactivated!

Are they gonna finish her off?

What's going on?

What?

Oh dear god, I'm so scared of what?

Is that?

Unit 2?

I'll kill you.

I'll kill you.

I'll kill you.

I'll kill you!

Berserker!

Asuka, stop!

I'll kill you...

I can't get to Eva.

There's nothing I can do.

Mother...

Unit 1 has finally awoken.

*Gasp* Evangelion Unit 1!

The Devil himself!

Asuka?

I've already joined with Adam.

The only way I will ever see my Yui again is through the forbidden fusion of Adam and Lilith.

We're running out of time.

Your AT field won't hold its shape for much longer.

Let us begin, Ray.

Release your AT field, the barrier of your mind.

Discard this unnecessary physical shape. all souls into one, and then take me to my Yui's side.

Asuka?

Ikari?

There's a high-speed object approaching from lunar space!

What the hell?!

Dear God, the Lance of Longinus returned.

At last, our dreams will be realized.

The original Lance of Longinus has been returned to us.

We are fewer units than we planned, but we'll have to make do.

Bring forth the true form of the Eva series.

The true form will evangelize humanity.

Through indiscriminate death and through prayer, we will return to our original state.

And our souls will be at peace.

Let the sacrament begin.

Ava Unit 1 has been captured!

Ascending to 12,000 meters!

12,000 and still rising!

Those bastards!

Sele is planning to use Unit 1 as a medium. -Eva Unit 1 has been marked with the Holy Stigmata. -Let us restore the Tree of Life.

The Eva-series have been our faithful servants, and this is the reason they were created.

The Ava series has unleashed their S2 engines.

Dimensional values are inverting.

All readings negative.

Numerical expression is impossible.

Sweet Jesus, it's an anti-AT field.

The data matches the readings from 15 years ago.

Can it be?

God have mercy.

We have begun third impact.

The S-2 engines have reached critical limit!

Aboard mission!

All units fall back!

We're unable to maintain gravitational control!

That's it, ladies.

Our mission's a complete failure.

Direct hit!

Surface ground layers are melting!

The second wave is eroding headquarters periphery!

Out of hull it's been exposed!

These impacts are only physical shock waves.

Set absorbers on maximum.

It should hold together.

Here to represent eternity.

The Red Earth Purification Ceremony.

First the Geofront is returned to...

Its original form.

The Egg of Lilith.

Source of all human life.

The Black Moon.

We no longer wish to return inside her shell.

But that is for Lilith to decide.

It appears to have begun.

Now, Rey, it's time to reunite me with Yui once more.

What?

I will not be a puppet for you to control.

Rey, why?

Because I am not like you.

Rey, please!

I beg you!

Wait!

Please, Rei!

I can't.

Ikari is calling me.

Rei!

I'm home.

*Dogma Negative!

It's a...

It's human!

*Sigh* Ayanami!

Rei!

Through the destruction of the ego of Unit 1's pilot, humanity shall now be completed.

The third retribution is finally at hand.

Amen.

The AT fields of the EVA series are all resonating!

The resonation is increasing!

Have the EVAs begun merging with Rey?

*Pewing sounds * I can't take it anymore.

I can't take it anymore.

I can't take it anymore.

Is this better?

Have you been right there the entire time?

*Rain* The solenoid graph is inverting!

His ego barrier is getting weaker!

The AT field is shifting to a pattern red!

The fruit of life is held by the angels.

The fruit of wisdom is held by man.

Ever Unit 1 now possesses them both, and therefore becomes God.

Now the source of all souls, the Tree of Life, has been formed again.

Will it be an ark to save mankind from the vacuum of Third Impact?

Or is it a demon that will destroy us all?

The fate of mankind now lies in Shinji's hands.

Tell me, have we done the right thing?

How the hell should I know?

This ray is your heart.

She embodies your hopes and your dreams.

What is it you wish for?

I see.

It's just like when I first started playing the cello.

I thought if I came here, I would find what I was looking for.

Mm-hmm. *cough* *crying* *cough* *punch of laughter* I wasn't able to be a mother to Shinji after all.

I guess I just do things like that to prove I exist.

That's stupid!

It's just two depressed grown-ups licking each other's wounds!

It's nice to feel needed, even if it is just physically.

It makes me feel wanted, and so it makes me happy.

It's just an easy way to convince yourself that you're worth something.

Does Misato really do things like that?

Yes.

This is also me.

The me that exists when two hearts are joined as one.

The me that Shinji has never known.

Reality can be painful, but it's something you must learn to accept.

Oh, man!

When I grow up, does that mean I'll do the same things Misato does?

You want to kiss me?

You can't.

Why?

Are you scared?

That stuff's not for kids.

Here I come.

You don't understand anything.

You just stay away from me.

I do understand.

You couldn't possibly!

You jerk!

You really think you can ever know me?

You think you can even help me?

Don't make me laugh!

I can't believe how arrogant you are!

You're such a moron!

You will never understand!

How can I ever understand you if you won't say anything?

You never talk to me, but you expect me to understand you!

That's impossible!

Did you ever really try to understand?

Of course I did.

Idiot.

I know all about your little jerk-off fantasies about me.

Go ahead and do it like you always do.

I'll even stand here and watch you.

But if I can't have you all to myself, then I don't want anything from you.

Then why don't you try just being nice to me?

We are nice to you.

LIARS!

You're just hiding behind those smiles, but you intentionally keep things ambiguous!

Because the truth causes everyone pain.

Because the truth is very, very traumatic.

But ambiguity only causes me more pain.

That's just an excuse.

But it scares me.

Because I don't know if everyone will stop wanting me again.

I feel awkward and uneasy.

Let me hear your voice.

Don't leave me.

I'm begging you.

Please care about me.

I want to stay with you, Asuka.

And I want to help you, but I don't know what to do.

Then don't do anything.

Don't come near me.

All you ever do is hurt me.

Asuka, help me.

Please.

Asuka, you're the only person that can help me.

Liar.

Asuka?

Anyone will do.

You don't care who it is.

You're afraid of Misato and the first child.

You're afraid of your mother and father too.

So now you come running to me.

No, I need you to help me.

Because that's the easiest way to keep from getting hurt.

You never even loved yourself.

You're all you have and you never even learned to like yourself.

Pathetic.

Help me.

Somebody, please help me.

Help me.

Help me.

Somebody.

Please help me.

Somebody help me!

Don't leave me alone!

Don't abandon me!

Please don't kill me!

No. *fair *Squeak* *Squeak* No one understands me.

You never understood anything.

I thought this was supposed to be a world without pain.

And without uncertainty.

That's because you thought that everyone else felt the same as you do.

You betrayed me!

You betrayed my feelings!

You misunderstood from the very beginning.

You just believed what you wanted to believe.

Nobody wants me, so they can all just die.

Then what is your hand for?

Nobody cares whether or not I exist.

Nothing ever changes.

So they can all just die.

Then tell me, what is your heart for?

It would be better if I never existed.

I should just die too.

Then why are you here?

Is it okay for me to be here?

*Screaming * Pallet response is verging on infinite zero!

Ava series and Geofront are approaching the E layer and still rising!

The Ava series is operational!

The anti-AT field from Lilith is expanding and materializing!

Anti-ATFIT has exceeded critical limits!

Soon individual entities will be unable to maintain their separate forms!

The chamber of Guff is open.

The door to both the beginning and the end of the world is open at last.

This world is overflowing with sorrow.

Its people are drowning in emptiness, and loneliness fills their hearts.

Hikari, did you also finally get to see Yui again?

The AT fields... the AT fields are all disappearing.

Is this the answer?

Is this what I was looking for?

Dr.

Akagi!

Maya...

Ritsuko...

Ritsuko...

Ritsuko!

The beginning and the end are one and the same, yes.

All is right with the world.

I've waited so long for this moment to arrive.

I will finally be with you again, Yui.

When Shinji is near me, all I ever do is cause him pain.

I thought it was better when I did nothing at all.

Were you afraid of Shinji?

I didn't believe that anyone could love me.

I never deserved to be loved.

So you were running away.

And you rejected the others around you, so there was no chance you would ever be hurt.

And you were terrified by the invisible bonds that people form.

You were afraid, and so you closed off your heart.

And so this is my retribution.

Forgive me, Shinji.

Oh!

I am only right.

I am only Do I even know you?

Who the hell are you?

I don't need you anymore.

Don't get me wrong.

Please stop.

I can't stand the sight of you.

Get out.

You wimp.

If it's too painful, you can always make it stop.

If you don't like it, you can just run away.

Do you want to be at ease?

Do you want to feel peace of mind?

Do you want to become one with me?

To have our bodies and souls join as one?

I'd rather die than do it with you.

Hey.

What is it?

What are...

Dreams?

Dreams?

Yes.

Dreams.

I don't understand.

I don't understand what reality is.

You can't bridge the gap between your own truth and the reality of others.

I don't know where to find happiness.

So you only find happiness in your dreams.

Then this is not reality?

This world where no one exists?

No, it is only a dream.

Then I don't exist here either.

This convenient fabrication is your attempt to change reality.

Is that wrong?

You were using fantasy to escape reality.

Why can't I dream that I'm alone?

That is not a dream.

That is a substitute for reality.

So where is my dream?

It is a continuation of reality.

But where is my reality?

It is at the end of your dream.

*Gasp* Ayanami...

Where are we?

This place is a sea of LCL, the primordial soup of life.

A place with no AT fields, where individual forms do not exist.

An ambiguous world, where you cannot tell where you end and others begin.

A world where you exist everywhere, and yet you exist nowhere, all at once.

So, this is death?

Not quite.

This is a world where we are all one.

This is the world you wished for.

Your world.

But this... this isn't right.

This feels wrong.

If you wish for others to exist, the walls of their hearts will separate them again.

And then they will all feel fear once more.

Okay, then.

Thank you.

I just felt pain when I existed in that reality.

So I thought it was all right to run away.

But there was nothing good in the place I escaped to either.

Because I didn't exist there.

And so...

No one existed.

Is it all right for the AT field to separate you all and cause you pain again?

I don't mind that.

But what are the two of you within my heart?

We are the hope that people will one day be able to understand each other.

And we are the words, I love you.

But that's just a pretense.

A selfish belief.

Like some kind of prayer.

It can't possibly last forever.

Eventually, I'll be betrayed.

And it will abandon me.

But still, I want to see them again.

Because at the time, I know my feelings were real.

Reality exists in a place unknown, and dreams exist within reality.

And truth lies in your heart.

The contents of a person's heart shapes their appearance.

And new images will change their hearts and their forms.

The power of imagination is the ability to create your own future, and the power to create your own flow of time.

But if people don't act of their own free will, then nothing will change at all.

So, you must regain your own lost form by your own volition.

Even if it means your words become lost or confused with the words of others.

Anyone can return to human form as long as they are able to imagine themselves within their own heart.

Don't worry, darling.

All living creatures have the power to be brought back to life.

And the will to go on living.

Anywhere can be paradise.

As long as you have the will to live.

After all, you are alive.

So you will always have the chance to be happy.

As long as the sun, the moon, and the earth exist, everything will be alright.

Will you be alright, love?

I still don't know where my happiness lies.

I'll still think about why I'm here and whether or not it was good to come back.

But that's just stating the obvious over and over.

I am myself.

But, Mother, what will you do, Mother?

When man created Evangelion, were we trying to create a clone of God?

Of course.

Humans can only exist on this earth.

But the Evangelion will be able to exist forever, along with the human soul that dwells within it.

When the Earth, the Moon, and the Sun are all gone, Eva will exist so long as just one person remains.

It'll be lonely, but as long as one person still lives...

It will be eternal proof that mankind ever existed.

Goodbye, Mother. *cough* *Cries* *coughing* How disgusting.